#t 251 17357667 Masonry 2019-10-14 00:01:00 Masonry 2019-12-27 14:35:00
译庞加莱的《科学的价值》

#p 21091859 Masonry Magnum Chaos 2019-12-27 13:55:30


2019-10-14 01:58:37
法国数学家庞加莱(Henri Poincaré)的著作《科学的价值》于1913年由George Halsted翻译为英文，论述的主题就是“科学的价值”，其中也有几处提及中国和东方文明，漫不经心但振聋发聩。我很难说的比庞加莱更好，因此希望在闲暇之时将这些文章翻译，以供大家参考和交流，姑且认为是一个习作。我也希望能听到读者的感受，不论是对文章内容还是翻译的细节上的。在我看来，每一篇文章具有相对的独立性，感兴趣的读者可以从中挑选一篇来读，无需整本读完。
庞加莱的写作是很一般(general)的，正因此，一个相当广泛的群体可以从中找到乐趣和启发。他的著作问世后获得了广泛的欢迎，不论专业、不论国别的人都从中找到乐趣，这点可以从Eric Bell在《Men of mathematics》写的Poincaré传记中印证。
如果法国的工人和女侍者可以读庞加莱，那我们当然也可以。
无需刻意强调，大师的作品，每经一次翻译都丧失一份美感，从开始的法语途径英语再由我翻译为汉语，其中的美感估计会丧失大半。在这样的情况下，看法、英文是更好的选择，目前应该也有很多汉语译本了，我的翻译仅提供一种参考和理解。译文中的黑体字是我标注的，旨在指出我认为重要的内容。更新将是缓慢而不定时的。囿于个人水平和见识，其中必有不少错译之处。之所以发在bbs上，是希望同学不吝指正，以使这个翻译更好。
从中节选两句我喜欢的话，为读者作示例：
如果再继续引用下去，恐怕要把整本书引用上来了，请读者看下面的译文吧。
**------目录------**
**序言** 事实的选择
        2楼 [https://bbs.pku.edu.cn/v2/post-read-single.php?bid=251&amp;postid=21091865](post-read-single.php?bid=251&amp;postid=21091865)
**引言**
        13楼 [https://bbs.pku.edu.cn/v2/post-read-single.php?bid=251&amp;postid=21129681](post-read-single.php?bid=251&amp;postid=21129681)
**第一部分 数学科学**
1. 数学中的直觉与逻辑 (共6节)
    I     15楼 [https://bbs.pku.edu.cn/v2/post-read-single.php?bid=251&amp;postid=21211679](post-read-single.php?bid=251&amp;postid=21211679)
    II    17楼 [https://bbs.pku.edu.cn/v2/post-read-single.php?bid=251&amp;postid=21225521](post-read-single.php?bid=251&amp;postid=21225521)
    III   21楼 [https://bbs.pku.edu.cn/v2/post-read-single.php?bid=251&amp;postid=21243927](post-read-single.php?bid=251&amp;postid=21243927)
    IV   22楼 [https://bbs.pku.edu.cn/v2/post-read-single.php?bid=251&amp;postid=21246571](post-read-single.php?bid=251&amp;postid=21246571)
    V    23楼 [https://bbs.pku.edu.cn/v2/post-read-single.php?bid=251&amp;postid=21250717](post-read-single.php?bid=251&amp;postid=21250717)
    VI   24楼 [https://bbs.pku.edu.cn/v2/post-read-single.php?bid=251&amp;postid=21266635](post-read-single.php?bid=251&amp;postid=21266635)
2. 时间的测量 (共13节)
    I     38楼 [https://bbs.pku.edu.cn/v2/post-read-single.php?bid=251&amp;postid=21387548](post-read-single.php?bid=251&amp;postid=21387548)
    II    40楼 [https://bbs.pku.edu.cn/v2/post-read-single.php?bid=251&amp;postid=21387622](post-read-single.php?bid=251&amp;postid=21387622)
    III   41楼 [https://bbs.pku.edu.cn/v2/post-read-single.php?bid=251&amp;postid=21388093](post-read-single.php?bid=251&amp;postid=21388093)
    IV   44楼 [https://bbs.pku.edu.cn/v2/post-read-single.php?bid=251&amp;postid=21463762](post-read-single.php?bid=251&amp;postid=21463762)
    V    45楼 [https://bbs.pku.edu.cn/v2/post-read-single.php?bid=251&amp;postid=21465496](post-read-single.php?bid=251&amp;postid=21465496)
3. 空间的观念
4. 空间和它的三个维度
**第二部分 物理科学**
5. 分析学与物理学
6. 天文学
7. 数学物理学的历史
8. 物理学当前的危机
9. 数学物理学的未来
**第三部分 科学的客观价值**
10. 科学是人为的吗？
11. 科学与现实
（对标题的翻译可能会再做更改）
**------      ------**

#p 21091865 Masonry Magnum Chaos 2019-12-07 00:50:24


2019-10-14 02:02:28
The Choice of Facts
事实的**选择 **
Tolstoi somewhere explains why ‘science for its own sake’ is in his eyes an absurd conception. We can not know all facts, since their number is practically infinite. It is necessary to choose; then we may let this choice depend on the pure caprice of our curiosity; would it not be better to let ourselves be guided by utility, by our practical and above all by our moral needs; have we nothing better to do than counting the number of lady-bugs on our planet?        
托尔斯泰曾提到，“只为科学的科学”在他眼中是一种荒谬的想法。**我们无法知悉所有的事实，因为事实的数目是无法穷尽的。**我们必须从中选择；或许，我们可以单凭好奇心的一时兴起来选择，又或者，可以按它们带来的效益做选择，以尽可能满足我们的生活的和道德的需求。毕竟，总该有些事比统计地球上瓢虫的数量更有意义吧？（注：这段所提到的Tolstoi是我们熟知的列夫·托尔斯泰）
It is clear the word utility has not for him the sense men of affairs give it, and following them most of our contemperaries. Little cares he for industrial applications, for the marvels of electricity or of automobiles, which he regards rather as obstacles to moral progress; utility for him is solely what can make man better.         
很显然，托尔斯泰所说的“效益”，与那些务实之人和追随其后的大众所说的“效益”，含义并不相同。对工业上的应用他并不关心，无论是电力还是汽车所带来的奇迹，对他来说都不过是道德之路上的障碍；“效益”一词，对他而言，意指“让人们变得更好的事物”。
For my part, it need scarce be said, I could never be content with either one or the other ideal; I want neither that plutocracy grasping and mean, nor that democracy goody and mediocre, occupied solely in turning the other cheek, where would dwell sages without curiosity, who, shunning excess, would not die of disease, but would surely die of ennui. But that is a matter of taste and is not what I wish to discuss. 
对我而言，我对哪一种理想的极端都无法感到完全满意。我既不想要财阀政治一般的贪婪和吝啬，也不喜欢民主政治的伪善和平庸，这些人只知道一味容忍，最终不过变成了没有好奇心的圣人，他们小心回避着过分放纵，不死于疾病也要无聊至死了。然而，这种选择是品味上的问题，我在这里不想讨论。
The question nevertheless remains and should fix our attention; if our choice can only be determined by caprice or by immediate utility, there can be no science for its own sake, and consequently no science. But is that true? That a choice must be made is incontestable; whatever be our activity, facts go quicker than we, and we can not catch them; while the scientist discovers one fact, there happen milliards of milliards in a cubic millimeter of his body. To wish to comprise nature in science would be to want to put the whole into the part.         
然而到此为止，我们的问题还没有得到解决； 如果我们选取事实的方法只限于好奇心或者直接的效益这两者，那科学就不可能是为了自身的，因此也就不再有科学了（注：此处“科学”应指“只为科学的科学”或“纯科学”）。然而我们真的没有科学吗？我们必须对事实做一个选择，这是无法否认的；无论我们的活动有多么迅速，事实都比我们更快，我们永远无法抓住他们全部；科学家发现一个事实的时候，在他体内的一角又发生了数不胜数的事实。想要将自然涵盖在科学中，就如同想要把整体放到部分中一般，是无法达到的。
But scientists believe there is a hierarchy of facts and that among them may be made a judicious choice. They are right, since otherwise there would be no science, yet science exists. One need only open the eyes to see that the conquests of industry which have enriched so many practical men would never have seen the light, if these practical men alone had existed and if they had not been preceded by unselfish devotees who died poor, who never thought of utility, and yet had a guide far other than caprice.         
但科学家仍相信：事实是有高下之分的，在众多事实中，他们可以做一个明智的选择。当然有办法选择，否则，就不会有科学了，而科学今天确实是存在的。我们只需要睁开双眼就能看见，如果所有人都如工业界的那些人一般事事切合实际，那他们永远无法看到今天的光亮。在他们这些切合实际的人之前，有着许多无私奉献却死于贫穷的人，他们从未考虑过效益，而指导他们的，远远不是好奇心导致的一时兴起。
As Mach says, these devotees have spared their successors the trouble of thinking. Those who might have worked solely in view of an immediate application would have left nothing behind them, and in face of a new need, all must have been begun over again. Now most men do not love to think, and this is perhaps fortunate when instinct guides them, for most often, when they pursue an aim which is immediate and ever the same, instinct guides them better than reason would guide a pure intelligence. But instinct is routine, and if thought did not fecundate it, it would no more progress in man than in the bee or ant. It is needful then to think for those who love not thinking and, as they are numerous, it is needful that each of our thoughts be as often useful as possible, and this is why a law will be the more precious the more general it is.         
如Mach所说：这些无私奉献者让后人免去了思考的麻烦。那些为了直接应用而工作的人，不会为后人留下任何东西，一旦面对一个新的需求，一切又必须重新开始。其实，大多数人并不喜欢思考，不过这对于那些依靠本能的人而言可能是一种幸运。因为，当从事简单而重复性的劳动时，本能对人的指导远胜于理性对智力的指导。然而，本能是我们日常依赖的东西，如果思想没有使本能变得更丰蕴，人类的思考就不会发展到高于蜜蜂或是蚂蚁的程度。因此，我们需要为那些不愿思考的人去思考。因为不愿思考的人数量众多，所以我们需要让每一个想法都尽可能经常地有用，这就是为什么**越普遍的定律就越珍贵**（注：Mach指的是Ernst Mach, 奥地利物理学家；注：英译文中用词为“law”，意指法律、规则、自然定律）。
This shows us how we should choose: the most interesting facts are those which may serve many times; these are the facts which have a chance of coming up again. We have been so fortunate as to be born in a world where there are such. Suppose that instead of 60 chemical elements there were 60 milliards of them, that they were not, some common, the others rare, but that they were uniformly distributed. Then, every time we picked up a new pebble there would be great probability of its being formed of some unknown substance; all that we knew of other pebbles would be worthless for it; before each new object we should be as the new-born babe; like it we could only obey our caprices or our needs. Biologists would be just as much as a loss if there were only individuals and no species and if heredity did not make sons like their fathers. 
现在我们知道该如何选择事实了——我们应该选择那些经常用到的事实。最有趣的事实，是那些可能会再次出现的事实。我们是幸运的，生活在一个有这样的事实的世界中。设想，如果世界不是由60种化学元素构成，而是由60亿万种化学元素构成，再假设这些元素的出现是等可能的。在这样的世界中，每当我们拿起一个石子，它在几率上都由新的物质构成；因此，我们对其他石子的知识，对手中的石子将会是完全无用的；在每一个新的物体前，我们都会像婴儿一样；正是因为像婴儿一样，我们唯一可以依赖的就是我们的意愿和需求了。这种迷茫，就好比一个生物学家到了一个只有个体却没有物种、子代不遗传父辈性状的世界一样。
In such a world there would be no science; perhaps thought and even life would be impossible, since evolution could not there develop the preservational instincts. Happily it is not so; like all good fortune to which we are accustomed, this is not appreciated at its true worth.
在这样的世界中，将不会再有科学。或许，就连生命也是不可能的了，因为演化在那里无法发展出自我保留的本能。还好，世界不是这样；对于惯以为常的好运，我们久处其中就不能欣赏它的价值，因此我们今天很难感受出这种好运的真正价值。
Which then are the facts likely to reappear? They are first the simple facts. It is clear that in a complex fact a thousand circumstances are united by chance, and that only a chance still much less probable could reunite them anew. But are there any simple facts? And if there are, how recognize them? What assurance is there that a thing we think simple does not hide a dreadful complexity? All we can say is that we ought to prefer the facts which seem simple to those where our crude eye discerns unlike elements. And then one of two things: either this simplicity is real, or else the elements are so intimately mingled as not to be distinguishable. In the first case there is chance of our meeting anew this same simple fact, either in all its purity or entering itself as element in a complex manifold. In the second case this intimate mixture has likewise more chances of recurring than a heterogeneous assemblage; chance knows how to mix, it knows not how to disentangle, and to make with multiple elements a well-ordered edifice in which something is distinguishable, it must be made expressly. The facts which appear simple, even if they are not so, will therefore be more easily revived by chance. This it is which justifies the method instinctively adopted by the scientist, and what justifies it still better, perhaps, is that oft-recurring facts appear to us simple, precisely because we are used to them. 
哪些事实更可能反复出现呢？首先，是简单的事实。因为，一个复合的事实，通常是因上千种环境的巧合形成的，单单因为巧合就再次形成同样的复合的几率是非常小的。真的有简单的事实吗？如果有的话，要怎么辨别它们？怎么确保我们所以为的简单，背后没有隐藏着极大的复杂性呢？对此，我们唯一的方法就是：选择那些我们肉眼看起来更简单的事实，而不是那些看起来根本不像基元的事实（英译文“Elements”，意为“元素，其他事物的组成部分”）。因此对于简单的事实，只有两种可能：要么我们所见的简单性是真实的，要么这简单性的构成基元已如此亲密地混杂，以至于我们已经无法分辨。在第一种情形下，我们可能会再次遇到这个事实，它或以纯粹的形式出现，或作为一个复杂复合体中的组成基元出现。在第二种情形下，简单事实的组成部分混合地已经如此紧密，以至于无法将这些组成部分分离，因此他们也有更大的共同出现的可能性；几率他懂得如何混合，却不知道如何分开，如果多个基元已能形成一个秩序森然而足以辨认的结构，那么这个结构的形成必定是刻意的。因此，我们看起来简单的事实，即使事实上是复合形成的，也更容易被几率重新唤起。以上的论述可以解释科学家们凭本能采用的选取事实的方法。或许，还有一个更好的解释——那些反复出现的事实之所以看起来简单，其实恰巧是因为我们已经习惯了。
But where is the simple fact? Scientists have been seeking it in the two extremes, in the infinitely great and in the infinitely small. The astronomer has found it because the distances of the stars are immense, so great that each of them appears but as a point, so great that the qualitative differences are effaced, and because a point is simpler than a body which has form and qualities. The physicist, on the other hand, has sought the elementary phenomenon in fictively cutting up bodies into infinitesimal cubes, because the conditions of the problem, which undergo slow and continuous variation in passing from one point of the body to another, may be regarded as constant in the interior of each of these little cubes. In the same way the biologist has been instinctively led to regard the cell as more interesting than the whole animal, and the outcome has shown his wisdom, since cells belonging to organisms the most different are more alike, for the one who can recognize their resemblances, than are these organisms themselves. The sociologists are more embarrassed; the elements, which for him are men, are too unlike, too variable, too capricious in a word, too complex; besides, history never begins over again. How then choose the interesting fact, which is that which begins again? Method is precisely the choice of facts; it is needful then to be occupied first with creating a method, and many have been imagined, since none imposes itself, so that sociology is the science which has the most methods and the fewest results. 
在哪里寻找这些简单事实呢？**科学家们在两个极端中找寻事实——在至大和至小之中。**天文学家之所以找到了简单事实，是因为星体之间的距离是如此的浩瀚，在这极大尺度下星体看起来几乎成了一点，因此他们各自特性的影响被去除了，物体的形态和性质造成的复杂性也被隐去了。物理学家通过想象将空间分割成很多个无穷小方块，在这至小的层次上寻找简单现象，这是因为物理学所研究的问题满足这个条件：从物体的一点移动到另一点时，条件的变化是缓慢而连续的，因此在每一个无限小块的内部都可看作常数。生物学家也本能地将细胞看作比整只动物更有意思的研究对象，而结果已经证实了他的智慧——对于那些认识到细胞之间的相似性的人而言，即便看起来很不相同的生物也有着较相似的细胞。社会学家的处境是最尴尬的，他所研究的基元是人类，而人之间的差别太大、太多变、太难以预测，总而言之，人太复杂；另外，历史从来不会真正地重演。在这种情况下，要怎么选择事实，如何选择那些有趣的，也就是那些会反复发生的事情呢？方法，其实就是对事实的选择，在研究开始前需要先确立一个方法。到目前为止，社会学家已经想象了许多方法，却还没有一个方法能得到确定的地位。因此在所有科学中，社会学有最多的方法，却有着最少的结论。
        
Therefore it is by the regular facts that it is proper to begin. But after the rule is well established, after it is beyond all doubt, the facts in full conformity with it are ere long without interest since they no longer teach us anything new. It is then the exception which becomes important. We cease to seek resemblances; we devote ourselves above all to the differences, and among the differences are chosen first the most accentuated, not only because they are the most striking, but because they will be the most instructive. A simple example will make my thought plainer: Suppose one wishes to determine a curve by observing some of its points. The practician who concerns himself only with immediate utility would observe only the points he might need for some special object. These points would be badly distributed on the curve; they would be crowded in certain regions, rare in others, so that it would be impossible to join them by a continuous line, and they would be unavailable for other applications. The scientist will proceed differently; as he wishes to study the curve for itself, he will distribute regularly the points to be observed, and when enough are known he will join them by a regular line and then he will have the entire curve. But for that how does he proceed? If he has determined an extreme point of the curve, he does not stay near this extremity, but goes first to the other end; after the two extremities the most instructive point will be the mid-point and so on. 
因此，我们要首先选择的是那些寻常的事实。但在我们建立法则并确保它们的可信性后，那些与法则完全吻合的事实就失去了原本的重要性；因为，我们从这些事实中无法再了解新的信息了。这时，违反法则的例外反而变得重要了。我们不再寻找相似性，而开始寻找差异性，我们要选择的是那些最醒目的差异，不仅是因为这些事实最让人惊讶，更是因为它们是最具指导性的。一个简单的例子更能说明我的想法：假设一个人想通过描点将一条曲线画出来。那些只在乎眼前效益的实践者，只会观测他为了达成特殊目的所需要的点。他画下的点在曲线上的分布将是丑陋的；在一些区域很密，有些区域却太稀少，很难将这些点连成一条连续的线，因而他们所描的图无法用于其他应用。科学家则会采取一种不同的手段，因为他的目的是研究曲线本身。他会尽可能均匀地将观测点分布在整条曲线上，当观测点足够多的时候，他就可以把它们连成一条连续的线了。这样，他就得到了整条曲线。具体要怎么做呢？他先观测一个端点，但他并不停留在这个端点附近，下次他就会观测另一端的端点；两个端点都观测后他会观察中点，然后继续这样进行下去。
So when a rule is established we should first seek the cause where this rule has the greatest chance of failing. Thence, among other reasons, come the interest of astronomic facts and the interest of the geologic past; by going very far away in space or very far away in time, we may find out usual rules entirely overturned, and these grand overturnings aid us the better to see or the better to understand the little changes which may happen nearer to us, in the little corner of the world where we are called to live and act. We shall better know this corner for having traveled in distant countries with which we have nothing to do. 
所以当一个规则被确立下来之后，我们应该检验的是，这个规则在何时最可能失效。这正是科学家对天文事实和地质历史产生兴趣的原因之一；我们在空间和时间上走到极远的地方，是希望在那里看到我们的规则被完全颠覆。这些大的颠覆，让我们对自己栖身的一角有了更敏感的观察和更深刻的认识。正因为我们曾遨游于乌有之乡与广漠之野，我们今天更了解我们偏安的一隅了。
But what we ought to aim at is less the ascertainment of resemblances and differences than the recognition of likenesses hidden under apparent divergences. Particular rules seem at first discordant, but looking more closely we see in general that they resemble each other; different as to matter, they are alike as to form, as to the order of their parts. When we look at them with this bias, we shall see them enlarge and tend to embrace everything. And this it is which makes the value of certain facts which come to complete an assemblage and to show that it is the faithful image of other known assemblages. 
然而，这种相似与差异的分辨并不是终极的目标，**我们找寻的是藏匿于表面分歧之下的内在相似性**。各个规则在最初看起来不甚和谐，但仔细思索，我们将发现它们大同小异；组成的实质不同，它们的形式与内部秩序却可能相似。当我们带着这种倾向考虑那些规则时，它们就会不断扩大，直至最后包揽万物。这样，我们才认清那些特定事实的价值；一些事实相互组装形成复合结构，让我们认清，它们不过是之前已知的复合结构的忠实镜像而已。
I will not further insist, but these few words suffice to show that the scientist does not choose at random the facts he observes. He does not, as Tolstoi says, count the lady-bugs, because, however interesting lady-bugs may be, their number is subject to capricious variations. He seeks to condense much experience and much thought into a slender volume; and that is why a little book on physics contains so many past experiences and a thousand times as many possible experiences whose result is known beforehand. 
对于科学家选择事实的方法的探讨，到此告一段落。我们应该已经说明了，科学家并不是随意地选择事实。科学家们并不像Tolstoi说的那样，每天只做统计瓢虫数量这类的琐事；因为，不论瓢虫多么有趣，它们的数量变化都是缺乏规律的。**科学家所做的事情，是将大量的经验与思考凝聚成一小册书**；这就是为什么一本精巧的物理书可以告诉我们如此多的经验，它解释了过去观测到结果的经验，更包含了无数个未曾观测过结果的经验。
But we have as yet looked only one side of the question. The scientist does not study nature because it is useful; he studies it because he delights in it, and he delights in it because it is beautiful. If nature were not beautiful, it would not be worth knowing, and if nature were not worth knowing, life would not be worth living. Of course I do not here speak of that beauty which strikes the sense, the beauty of qualities and of appearances; not that I undervalue such beauty, far from it, but it has nothing to do with science; I mean that profounder beauty which comes from the harmonious order of the parts and which a pure intelligence can grasp. This it is which gives body, a structure so to speak, to the iridescent appearances which flatter our senses, and without this support the beauty of these fugitive dreams would be only imperfect, because it would be vague and always fleeting. On the contrary, intellectual beauty is sufficient unto itself, and it is for its sake, more perhaps than for the future good of humanity, that the scientist devotes himself to long and difficult labors. 
但是，我们也只看到了问题的一面。**科学家之所以研习自然，并非因它有用；他之所以研习自然，是因自然让他喜悦；他喜悦，是因自然是美的。如果自然不美，那它就不值得认识。如果自然也不值得认识，那生命就不值得珍视。**当然，我这里提到的美，并非指那些打动感官的美，或是那些出于性质和表象的美。如果说我轻视这种美，那就大相径庭；不过，这种美确与科学无关。我所说的美，是一种更深的美，它来自于各部件之间的和谐秩序，这种美单用智力就可感知。正是这种智力的美感，赋予了肢体某种结构，使其表象令人心驰神往；若没有了它的支撑，这种转瞬即逝的梦境就会沾染瑕疵，变得飘忽不定。与那种表象美不同，智力的美感对自身就已充足；**科学家之所以殚精竭虑探知自然，其首要追求，在于这种智力上的美感，而不甚在于人类的美好未来。**
It is, therefore, the quest of this especial beauty, the sense of the harmony of the cosmos, which makes us choose the facts most fitting to contribute to this harmony, just as the artist chooses from among the features of his model those which perfect the picture and give it character and life. And we need not fear that this instinctive and unavowed prepossession will turn the scientist aside from the search for the true. One may dream a harmonious world, but how far the real world will leave it behind! The greatest artists that ever lived, the Greeks, made their heavens; how shabby it is beside the true heavens, ours!
因此，这种对美的追求，对宇宙的和谐感的追求，让我们选择了那些与宇宙的和谐感最贴切的事实，这正如艺术家只从他的模型中选取那些让作品更富特性与生命的特征。的确，科学家所依赖的，是这种隐含于本能的对美的执著，但我们无需担心这种执著会使科学家偏离真相。即便是你所能想象的最和谐的世界，于真实世界也只会相形见绌！希腊人是历史上最伟大的艺术家，他们曾建造天堂；然而，与我们所知的天堂相比，他们的天堂又是何其陋败！
And it is because simplicity, because grandeur, is beautiful, that we preferably seek simple facts, sublime facts, that we delight now to follow the majestic course of the stars, now to examine with the microscope that prodigious littleness which is also a grandeur, now to seek in geologic time the traces of a past which attracts because it is far away. 
**正因为那至简的和至大的必是至美的，我们偏爱简单和宏大的事实。**我们醉心于追随群星的至伟的行进，我们用显微镜探查那至大的至小，我们在地质时间中追寻往去的痕迹，不正因我们被它的寥远所吸引吗？
We see too that the longing for the beautiful leads us to the same choice as the longing for the useful. And so it is that this economy of thought, this economy of efforts, which is according to Mach, the constant tendency of science, is at the same time a source of beauty and a practical advantage. The edifices that we admire are those where the architect has known how to proportion the means to the end, where the columns seem to carry gaily, without effort, the weight placed upon them, like the gracious caryatids of the Erechtheion. 
我们看到，对美的渴望与对效用的渴望常常将我们引向同样的选择。而且，也就是这种思想上的节约，这种劳力的节约，这些Mach所说的科学的不变倾向，是美的来源和实际的优势。最值得欣赏的建筑，就是那些建造者巧妙地将手段用于需求的建筑，它的立柱几乎不费力气就能支撑起头顶的重量，就如同Erechtheion神殿的像柱一般。
Whence comes this concordance? Is it simply that the things which seem to us beautiful are those which best adapt themselves to our intelligence, and that consequently they are at the same time the implement this intelligence knows best how to use? Or is there here a play of evolution and natural selection? Have the peoples whose ideal most conformed to their highest interest exterminated the others and taken their place? All pursued their ideals without reference to consequences, but while this quest led some to destruction, to others it gave empire. One is tempted to believe it. If the Greeks triumphed over the barbarians and if Europe, heir of Greek thought, dominates the world, it is because the savages loved loud colors and the clamorous tones of the drum which occupied only their senses, while the Greeks loved the intellectual beauty which hides beneath sensuous beauty, and that this intellectual beauty it is which makes intelligence sure and strong. 
美与效用的一致性从何而来呢？是否因为，在我们看来美的事物也正是那些与我们的智能最相宜的事物，也因此最容易被我们的智能运用？演化和自然选择是否起了作用？是不是因为，那些理想与最高需求吻合得最好的人，将其他人消灭而取而代之呢？**所有人都不顾后果地追逐他们的理想，这给一些人带来了灭亡，却给另一些人带来了帝国。**或许，事情就真是这样。希腊人征服了蛮夷，而继承了希腊思想的欧洲人今天征服了世界，正是因为那些原始人热爱的是充斥感官的喧声与艳色，而**希腊人热爱的是隐藏在感官美之下的智力美**，就是这种智力美确保了智能的可信和有力。
Doubtless such a triumph would horrify Tolstoi, and he would not like to acknowledge that it might be truly useful. But this disinterested quest of the true for its own beauty is sane also and able to make man better. I well know there are mistakes, that the thinker does not always draw thence the serenity he should find therein, and even that there are scientists of bad character. Must we, therefore, abandon science and study only morals? What! Do you think the moralists themselves are irreproachable when they come down from their pedestal? 
无疑，这种胜利对托尔斯泰而言会是一种惊吓，而他当然不愿承认这种胜利可能确有用处。但这种不求私利的对真理之美的追求，也的确是理智的，而且它也的确会让人变得更好。我当然知道，思考者有时没能从他的思考中获得他本应找到的平静，甚至，某些科学家的品性还很恶劣。那么，我们是不是只能抛弃科学而研究道德呢？什么！难道你以为那些道德说教者在走下神坛后，仍是无可指摘的吗？
（本篇完）

#p 21093739 hmqfc FC 2019-10-14 13:50:13
厉害厉害，正好学习一下
#quote Masonry

#p 21094331 silicona silicona 2019-10-14 16:05:03
码一个。让楼主知道有人在追更。
#quote Masonry

#p 21095326 Masonry Magnum Chaos 2019-10-14 19:00:49
谢谢支持
#quote silicona

#p 21109218 Masonry Magnum Chaos 2019-10-17 19:34:48
对序言的翻译大致完成，请读者不吝指正。预计一到二周之后可以译完引言。
#quote Masonry

#p 21110914 edensnake edensnake 2019-10-18 09:03:55
Great...第一段中的Tolstoi应该就是托尔斯泰的英译名，但不确定是否就是那个托尔斯泰。
#quote Masonry

#p 21110946 Masonry Magnum Chaos 2019-10-18 09:12:00
的确是我们知道的那个列夫·托尔斯泰
#quote edensnake

#p 21110998 edensnake edensnake 2019-10-18 09:23:21
那我觉得名字也翻译一下比较好。毕竟托尔斯泰比Tolstoy知名度高多了。就像蒋介石比常凯申知名度高多了:）
#quote Masonry

#p 21111029 Masonry Magnum Chaos 2019-10-18 09:30:24
我是打算在翻译中所有人名一致使用英译文的原文，这样可以避免不标准的中译名。不过我想我最好还是加一些注释说明这些人名对应的人，以避免混淆。谢谢你的建议
#quote edensnake

#p 21111194 TWayne 装在套子里的人 2019-10-18 10:12:54
感谢
#quote Masonry

#p 21112748 Kindness 东冬咚 2019-10-18 15:40:56
翻译这种东西真的好高深。
#quote Masonry

#p 21129681 Masonry Magnum Chaos 2019-12-07 00:59:37


2019-10-21 22:32:23
Introduction
**引言**
The search for truth should be the goal of our activities; it is the sole end worthy of them. Doubtless we should first bend our efforts to assuage human suffering, but why? Not to suffer is a negative ideal more surely attained by the annihilation of the world. If we wish more and more to free man from material cares, it is that he may be able to employ the liberty obtained in the study and contemplation of truth. 
**对真理的追寻，应是我们生存的唯一目的**；唯有它，有如此的价值。无疑，我们应首先把精力倾注在减少人类苦难上。但，为什么？如果只是为了减少痛苦，那么直接毁灭整个世界难道不是更易达到这种否定式的理想吗？我们之所以希望人能从物质的忧虑中解放出来，是因为唯有如此，他才能将自由用于对真理的研习和思考上。
But sometimes truths frightens us. And in fact we know that it is sometimes deceptive, that it is phantom never showing itself for a moment except to ceaselessly flee, that it must be pursued further and ever further without ever being attained. Yet to work one must stop, as some Greek, Aristotle or another, has said. We also know how cruel the truth often is, and we wonder whether illusion is not more consoling, yea, even more bracing, for illusion it is which gives confidence. When it shall have vanished, will hope remain and shall we have the courage to achieve? Thus would the horse harnessed to his treadmill refuse to go, were his eyes not bandaged? And then to seek truth it is necessary to be independent, wholly independent. If on the contrary we wish to act, to be strong, we should be united. This is why many of us fear truth; we consider it a cause of weakness. Yet truth should not be feared, for it alone is beautiful. 
然而，真理却常让人感到恐惧。我们知道，真理常是欺骗性的——它是一个幽灵，在显现的一瞬间又立刻开始逃离，我们必须一刻也不停地追寻它，但却永远无法将它捕获。然而，Aristotle或某个希腊人却这样说：“为了工作，我们必须停留”。我们也知道，真理常是残忍的，而错觉可能更让人心安；错觉也更振奋人心，因为，是错觉给了我们自信。倘若没有这种自信，我们真的还能保留任何希望吗？我们还会有勇气去实现这些希望吗？试想，如果马的眼睛没有被蒙蔽，那他还会愿意继续推动他的踏车吗？再者，追寻真理的人必须独立，而且必须是彻底的独立。然而，为了行动、为了变得强大，我们就必须联合在一起。这或许就是多数人恐惧真理的原由——他们把真理看作虚弱的来源。然而我们不应恐惧真理，因为世上**只有真理是美的**。
When I speak here of truth, assuredly I refer first to scientific truth; but I also mean moral truth, of which what we call justice is only one aspect. It may seem that I am misusing words, that I combine thus under the same name two things having nothing in common; That scientific truth, which is demonstrated, can in no way be likened to moral truth, which is felt. And yet I can not separate them, and whosoever loves the one can not help loving the other. To find the one, as well as to find the other, it is necessary to free the soul completely from prejudice and from passion; it is necessary to attain absolute sincerity. These two sorts of truth when discovered give the same joy; each when perceived beams with the same splendor, so that we must see it or close our eyes. Lastly, both attract us and flee from us; they are never fixed: when we think to have reached them, we find that we have still to advance, and he who pursues them is condemned never to know repose. It must be added that those who fear the one will also fear the other; for they are the ones who in everything are concerned above all with consequences. In a word, I liken the two truths, because the same reasons makes us love them and because the.same reasons makes us love them and because the same reasons make us fear them. 
当我提到真理时，我首先指的是**科学真理**；但我说的“真理”一词，也包含着**道德真理**的意思（我们称作正义的仅是道德真理的一种）。乍看之下，我似乎在错用词语：我用同一个名字称呼了两种迥异的事物。科学真理需要的是证实，而道德真理需要的则是感知。但是，我却无法区分这两者，因为爱其中一种的也会无可避免地爱上另一种。无论要找寻哪种真理，我们都必须将灵魂从偏见和激情中彻底解脱，必须达到完全的真诚。这两种真理，在被发现时，给人以同样的愉悦；在被感知时，闪耀着同样的辉煌，我们若不愿看见，就只能闭上双眼。两者同样吸引着我们，又从我们身边逃离；他们从不停歇——每当我们以为抓住真理时，我们都发现自己还需前进。那些追寻真理的人注定无法停歇。我还要指出，畏惧一种真理的也会畏惧另一种；因为对真理的追寻是不顾一切、不计后果的。总之，我之所以将这两者一并称呼，是**因为人们出于同样的原因爱着它们，也出于同样的原因而畏惧它们。**
If we ought not fear moral truth, still less should we dread scientific truth. In the first place it can not conflict with ethics. Ethics and science have their own domains, which touch but do not interpenetrate. The one shows us to what goal we should aspire, the other, given the goal, teaches us how to attain it. So they can never conflict since they can never meet. There can no more be immoral science than there can be scientific morals. 
如果我们不畏惧道德真理，那对科学真理就更不该畏惧了。首先，**科学真理与伦理不可能冲突。**伦理与科学各有各自的领域，它们相互触碰却不渗入对方。伦理告诉我们应当追求什么目标，而科学告诉我们如何实现这些目标。科学和伦理从不相见，所以，它们不可能是相互冲突的。**世上没有不道德的科学，一如科学的道德不可能存在。**
But if science is feared, it is above all because it can not give us happiness. Of course it can not. We may even ask whether the beast does not suffer less than man. But can we regret that earthly paradise where man brute-like was really immortal in knowing not that he must die? When we have tasted the apple, no suffering can make us forget its savor. We always come back to it. Could it be otherwise? As well ask if one who has seen and is blind will not long for the light. Man, then, can not be happy through science, but to-day he can much less be happy without it. 
**但如果人们惧怕科学，首先是因为它不能给我们幸福。**它当然不能。我们甚至想问：野兽的苦难是否比人类还更少？野蛮人因为不知自己难逃一死而得以“永生”，但对于他们所处的那个伊甸乐园，我们会当真怀念吗？既已品尝了那智慧之果，再多的受难也无法让我们忘却它的甘甜。我们对它再不能戒绝。我们会宁愿忘记它的味道吗？你若对这问题好奇，不妨去问问失明之人：他渴不渴望重见天日？**人类虽不能经由科学获得幸福，但今天若离了它却会变得更加不幸。**
But if truth be the sole aim worth pursuing, may we hope to attain it? It may well be doubted. Readers of my little book ’Science and Hypothesis’ already know what I think about the question. The truth we are permitted to glimpse is not altogether what most men call by that name. Does this mean that our most legitimate, most imperative aspiration is at the same time most vain? Or can we, despite all, approach truth on some side? This it is which must be investigated.
但是，如果真理的确是唯一值得追寻的目标，**我们可以寄希望于达到它吗**？这种希望的确值得怀疑。那些曾阅读过我的小书“Science and Hypothesis”的读者，或许已经知道我对这问题的想法了。我们获准得以窥探的那些真理，与人们通常说的真理并不全然相同。这是否说明我们最合理、最急迫的渴求也正是最徒劳的？或者，我们是否还是可以从某个侧面接近真理呢？这个问题我们必须仔细考查。
In the first place, what instrument have we at our disposal for this conquest? Is not human intelligence, more specifically the intelligence of the scientist, susceptible of infinite variation? Volumes could be written without exhausting this subject; I, in a few brief pages, have only touched it lightly. That the geometer’s mind is not like the physicist’s or the naturalist’s, all the world would agree; but mathematicians themselves do not resemble each other; some recognize only implacable logic, others appeal to intuition and see in it the only source of discovery. And this would be a reason for distrust. To minds so unlike can the mathematical theorems themselves appear in the same light? Truth which is not the same for all, is it truth? But looking at things more closely, we see how these very different workers collaborate in a common task which could not be achieved without their cooperation. And that already reassures us.
首先要问，我们在这个征程中有哪些器具可以利用？人类的智能，尤其是科学家的智能，不是存在着无尽的差异吗？关于这个话题，我们即使写出许多卷书也无法穷尽。我在短短几页中，也仅仅是较浅地触及了这个话题。当然，所有人都知道几何学家的心智与物理学家的、博物学家的不尽相同；然而数学家之间也是大有不同的；有一些人只认可无可取代的逻辑，而另一些人更亲近直觉，他们把直觉看作新发现的唯一源泉。因此，我们（对科学）有不信任的理由。在如此不同的心智看来，数学定理看起来会是一样的吗？如果真理是因人而异的，那它还叫真理吗？然而，在更细致的观察后我们会看到，这些各具特性的工作者在共同的事业中完成了他们独自无法完成的任务。这已经稍让我们安心了。
Next must be examined the frames in which nature seems enclosed and which are called time and space. In ‘Science and Hypothesis’ I have already shown how relative their value is. It is not nature which imposes them upon us, it is we who impose them upon nature because we find them convenient. But I have spoken scarcely more than space, and particularly quantitative space, so to say, that is of the mathematical relations whose aggregate constitutes geometry. I should have shown that it is the same with time as with space and still the same with ‘quantitative space’; in particular, I should have investigated why we attribute three dimensions to space. I may be pardoned then for taking up again these important questions.
接下来，我们需要调查自然所处于的框架，也就是那被我们称作时间和空间的东西。在“Science and Hypothesis”中我已经展示了他们仅有相对的价值。**这框架，并非自然强加于我们的，反而是我们为图方便强加于自然之上的。**然而，我在之前只谈论了空间，特别是那个可用其中数学关系组成几何学的量化空间。我本应该在那里就说明时间与空间或“量化空间”之间的相似性，并讨论为什么我们将空间赋予三个维度。因此，请原谅我在这本书中再次提起这些重要的问题。
Is mathematical analysis then, whose principal object is the study of these empty frames, only a vain play of the mind? It can give to the physicist only a convenient language; is this not a mediocre service, which, strictly speaking, could be done without and even is it not to be feared that this artificial language may be a veil interposed between reality and the eye of the physicist? Far from it; without this language most of the intimate analogies of things would have remained forever unknown to us; and we should forever have been ignorant of the internal harmony of the world, which is, we shall see, the only true objective reality.
那么，以时空这种空虚框架作为主要对象的数学分析，不是就成了人类心智的无意义的文字游戏了吗？似乎，它能给物理学家的，不过是一种方便的语言而已。这不是一件相当平庸的工作吗？严格说来，没有这种语言不是也无所谓吗？甚至，我们还有理由担心这种语言会像一层面纱一般，阻隔物理学家与现实世界。事实远非如此；**如果没了分析学这门语言，那么我们对事物的紧密类比，将永远无法获知；因而，我们将永远无法看见世界的内在和谐**，而这恰恰是唯一的客观现实。这些我们在后面会提到。
The best expression of this harmony is law. Law is one of the most recent conquests of the human mind; there still are people who live in the presence of a perpetual miracle and are not astonished at it. On the contrary, we it is who should be astonished at nature’s regularity. Men demand of their gods to prove their existence by miracles; but the eternal marvel is that there are not miracles without cease. The world is divine because it is a harmony. If it were rule by caprice, what could prove to us it was not ruled by chance?
**和谐的最佳表达方式，就是定律。**定律是人类心智近来的俘虏；现在的世上，仍有人活在永远的奇迹之中却不以为怪。其实，应该惊讶于自然的规律性的，反而是我们。人常要求他的神通过奇迹显现自己；然而，最令人惊叹的是，这世上不存在恒常不逝的奇迹。世界之所以神圣，是因为它如和声般和谐。假若这世界是由谁的一己之意统治的，我们怎么知道它不是由几率统治的呢？
This conquest of law we owe to astronomy, and just this makes the grandeur of the science rather than the material grandeur of the objects it considers. It was altogether natural then that celestial mechanics should be the first model of mathematical physics; but since then this science has developed; it is still developing, even rapidly developing. And it is already necessary to modify in certain points the scheme I outlined in 1900 and from which I drew two chapters of ‘Science and Hypothesis.’ In an address at the St. Louis exposition in 1904, I sought to survey the road traveled; the result of this investigation the reader shall see farther on. 
我们对定律的征服，应当归功于天文学。是天文学，成就了科学独有的壮美，这壮美不因天文学所研究物体的庞大而生。因此，天体物理会成为数学物理的第一个模型，是很自然的事情；但自那之后，我们的科学已大大发展了；今天，它发展地甚至更迅速了。1900年时，我已于“Science and Hypothesis”一书中指出，科学已经发展到了必须对一些部分作修改的处境了。在1904年，我于St. Louis的讲演中曾调查了我们已走过的路；这考查的结果，读者将会在本书的后面读到。
The progress of science has seemed to imperil the best established principles, those even which were regarded as fundamental. Yet nothing shows they will not be saved; and if this comes about only imperfectly, they will still subsist even though they are modified. The advance of science is not comparable to the changes of a city, where old edifices are pitilessly torn down to give place to new, but to the continuous evolution of zoologic types which develop ceaselessly and end by becoming unrecognizable to the common sight, but where an expert eye finds always traces of the prior work of the centuries past. One must not think then that the old-fashioned theories have been sterile and vain. 
**科学的前进，摧毁了我们最完善的原理，甚至是那些最根本的原理。**然而，这并不是说它们无可挽救；只要转变不是彻底的，那么一定有原理还会延续下去，虽然难免要做些修饰。科学的进步与城市的变化是不同的。在城市的建设中，我们心无怜悯地摧毁旧有的建筑，以给新的建筑腾地方；在科学中，进步却如动物种类的连续演化一般不断的发展，直至常人之眼已无法识别，然而专家的眼睛仍可以鉴别出几世纪前造物的痕迹。因此，**不应认为旧有的理论就定是徒劳无功的了。**
Were we to stop there, we should find in these pages some reasons for confidence in the value of science, but many more for distrusting it; an impression of doubt would remain; it is needful now to set things to rights. 
假使我们在这停止，我们会发现自己对科学有一些信心，但却有更多的理由不信任它；**这种对科学的怀疑在我们的心头停留；现在应当把这些怀疑解答了**。
Some people have exaggerated the role of convention in science; they have even gone so far as to say that law, that scientific fact itself, was created by the scientist. This is going too far in the direction of nominalism. No, scientific laws are not artificial creations; we have no reason to regard them as accidental, though it be impossible to prove they are not. 
有些人过分强调惯例在科学中的作用，他们甚至认为，连自然定律和科学事实都是由科学家创造出来的。这恐怕在唯名主义的道路上走得太远了。事实并不像他们所说的那样。科学定律并不是人为的创造；我们没有理由相信它们是偶然的，虽然我们也没有办法证明它们不是偶然。
Does the harmony the human intelligence thinks it discovers in nature exist outside of this intelligence? No, beyond doubt, a reality completely independent of the mind which conceives it, sees or feels it, is an impossibility. A world as exterior as that, even if it existed, would for us be forever inaccessible. But what we call objective reality is, in the last analysis, what is common to many thinking beings, and could be common to all; this common part, we shall see, can only be the harmony expressed by mathematical laws. It is this harmony then which is the sole objective reality, the only truth we can attain; and when I add that the universal harmony of the world is the source of all beauty, it will be understood what price we should attach to the slow and difficult progress which little by little enables us to know it better. 
**人类的智能认为自己发现的这种和谐，真的存在于人类智能之外的地方吗？当然不。一个完全无法感知、看见或感受到的现实不可能存在。即使真有一个那样疏远的世界，也不是我们所能感知的。然而，我们在最后一篇中将提到，那个我们称作客观现实的事物，的确是许多思考的存在的共识，甚至可能是所有思考的存在的共识，而这个共识唯一的表达方式就是数学定律。这种和谐是唯一的客观现实，是唯一能知悉的真理；当我进一步指出，这种宇宙的普遍和谐正是所有美的泉源，我们就会明白，这个缓慢而困难的知识增长的进程，究竟是多么的有价值。**
（本篇完）

#p 21191678 Masonry Magnum Chaos 2019-10-24 11:59:45


2019-10-24 11:40:44
对引言的翻译已完成，上面这篇文章是整本书的一个缩影，分段介绍了整书的各篇文章的主旨。
下一篇开始进入数学科学的部分，讲的是数学中的直觉与逻辑这两种思考模式。这种思维倾向的差异在数学家身上是很明显的，对数学感兴趣的同学尤其应该一读（陶哲轩曾在博客中推荐此文）。
用Poincaré自己的引言来介绍：

#p 21211679 Masonry Magnum Chaos 2019-12-17 12:46:24


2019-10-27 15:24:58
Intuition and logic in mathematics
数学中的直觉和逻辑
**I**
**一**
It is impossible to study the works of the great mathematicians, or even those of the lesser, without noticing and distinguishing two opposite tendencies, or rather two entirely different kinds of minds. The one sort are above all preoccupied with logic; to read their works, one is tempted to believe they have advanced only step by step, after the manner of a Vauban who pushes on his trenches against the place besieged, leaving nothing to chance. The other sort are guided by intuition and at the first stroke make quick but sometimes precarious conquests, like bold cavalrymen of the advance guard. 
在研习大数学家的著作，或稍逊的数学家的著作时，我们难免会注意到**两种互反的倾向**，或说，两种完全不同的心智。其中一种，完全将精力倾注在**逻辑**上；读他们的作品，人们会相信他们一定是步步为营的，就如沃邦一点一点把战壕推近敌营，不留一丝悬念。另一种人，则是由**直觉**指引的，在首战中就发动迅速但却危险的进攻，就如同前卫部队中勇敢的骑兵一般。
（注：沃邦，由Vauban翻译而来，是十七世纪法国的元帅和军事工程师，没有参与过一场战争，但凭借军事筑城的天才帮助法国打了很多胜仗）
The method is not imposed by the matter treated. Though one often says of the first that they are analysts and calls the others geometers, that does not prevent the one sort from remaining analysts even when they work at geometry, while the others are still geometers even when they occupy themselves with pure analysis. It is the very nature of their mind which makes them logicians or intuitionalists, and they can not lay it aside when they approach a new subject. 
**他们的倾向，并不是由研究对象的特性导致的。**虽然人们常把前者称为分析学家而把后者称作几何学家，但分析学家在做几何时不会变成几何学家，而几何学家在做纯分析时也没有变成分析学家。**其实，是他们的心智的天性，让他们成为了逻辑者或直觉者**，这种天性在他们接触新的学科时也无法割离。
（注：logician和intuitionalist，分别被翻译成“逻辑者”和“直觉者”；直接的翻译可能是“逻辑学家”和“直觉主义者”，但这里这两个词在这里指的是两种思维倾向的数学家，既不是“学家”，也不是“主义者”，应是平行的概念，故作此翻译）
Nor is it education which has developed in them one of the two tendencies and stifled the other. The mathematician is born, not made, and it seems he is born a geometer or an analyst. I should like to cite examples and there are surely plenty; but to accentuate the contrast I shall begin with an extreme example, taking the liberty of seeking it in two living mathematicians. 
但也并非是教育发展了一种倾向而扼杀了另一种倾向。**数学家是天生的，不是被制造的**，而他将成为几何学家还是分析学家，似乎生来就注定了。我现在希望引用一些例子，这样的例子当然有很多；但为突出重点，我会从最极端的例子讲起，他们是两个仍在世的数学家。
M. Méray wants to prove that a binomial equation always has a root, or, in ordinary words, that an angle may always be subdivided. It there is any truth that we think we know by direct intuition, it is this. Who could doubt that an angle may always be divided into any number of equal parts? M. Méray does not look at it that way; in his eyes this proposition is not at all evident and to prove it he needs several pages.
Méray想要证明，一个二项方程总有一根，或通俗地说，一个角总可以被等分。我们的直觉哪怕只能感知一个真理，那就是它了。谁会质疑一个角能否被等分成任意个部分呢？Méray先生不这样想；在他看来，这个命题并不显然，为了证明这个命题他得用几页纸。
On the other hand, look at Professor Klein: he is studying one of the most abstract questions of the theory of functions to determine whether on a given Riemann surface there always exists a function admitting of given singularities. What does the celebrated German geometer do? He replaces his Riemann surface by a metallic surface whose electric conductivity varies according to certain laws. He connects two of its points with two poles of a battery. The current, says he, must pass, and the distribution of this current on the surface will define a function whose singularities will be precisely those called for by the enunciation. 
对另一个倾向的例子，只需看Klein教授就足够了。他研究的，是函数论中最抽象的问题——在给定的黎曼曲面上是否总有一个函数存在给定的奇点。这个久负盛名的德国几何学家是怎么做的呢？他将他的黎曼曲面换成了一个金属表面，并且想象它的电导服从一定的规律。他将表面上的两点用电池的两极相连。电流一定会通过，他这样说，而那电流在曲面上的分布定义了一个满足开头对奇点的要求的函数。
Doubtless Professor Klein well knows he has given here only a sketch: nevertheless he has not hesitated to publish it; and he would probably believe he finds in it, if not a rigorous demonstration, at least a kind of moral certainty. A logician would have rejected with horror such a conception, or rather he would not have had to reject it, because in his mind it would never have originated. 
当然，Klein教授很清楚，他在这里给出的仅仅是一个勾勒而已：然而他毫不犹豫地把这个结果发表了；他很可能认为，即使自己没有完整的证明，至少也获得了一种道德上的确定性。当然，一个逻辑者会充满恐惧地拒绝这种构想，或者，他可能根本不需要拒绝，因为在他的脑中这想法根本不会产生。
Again, permit me to compare two men, the honor of French science, who have recently been taken from us, but who both entered long ago into immortality. I speak of M. Bertrand and M. Hermite. They were scholars of the same school at the same time; they had the same education, were under the same influences; and yet what a difference! Not only does it blaze forth in their writings; it is in their teaching, in their way of speaking, in their very look.  In the memory of all their pupils these two faces are stamped in deathless lines, this remembrance is still fresh; it is easy for us to evoke it. 
下面 ，请允许我比较两个人，他们是法国科学的荣耀。最近，他们被从我们身边带走，但他们其实早已永垂不朽。我指的是Bertrand和Hermite。这两位学者同时处在同一所学院；他们有相同的教育，受相同的影响；然而，他们是多么地不同啊！这差异，不仅在他们的作品中迸发出来；还体现在他们的授课上，他们说话的方式上，甚至是他们的外表上。在他们的学生的记忆中，这两张脸已用无法抹去的线条铭刻下来了，至今犹新；我们很容易就能回想起他们间的差别。
While speaking, M. Bertrand is always in motion; now he seems in combat with some outside enemy, now he outlines with a gesture of the hand the figures he studies. Plainly he sees and he is eager to paint, this is why he calls gesture to his aid. With M. Hermite, it is just the opposite; his eyes seem to shun contact with the world; it is not without, it is within he seeks the vision of truth. 
Bertrand先生说话时，总是运动着的；他一会儿像在与外界的敌人战斗，一会儿又突然用手势勾画出他所研究的图像。总之，**他看见了什么，并且总渴望把它们画出来**，这就是他总用手势作辅助的原因。然而，Hermite则是截然相反的；他的眼睛好像躲避着与外界的接触；**他不是在外界，而是在内心中寻求对真理的视觉**。
Among the German geometers of this century, two names above all are illustrious,  those of the two scientists who have founded the general theory of functions, Weierstrass and Riemann. Weierstrass leads everything back to the consideration of series and their analytic transformations; to express it better, he reduces analysis to a sort of prolongation of arithmetic; you may turn through all his books without finding a figure. Riemann, on the contrary, at once calls geometry to his aid; each of his conceptions is an image that no one can forget, once he has caught its meaning. 
在本世纪的所有德国几何学家中，有两个名字最为耀眼，那就是创造了函数的一般理论的两个数学家，Weierstrass和Riemann。Weierstrass将所有问题都转变为对级数和解析变换的思考；更准确的说，他把分析简化成了算数的某种延伸；翻遍他的所有书，你也找不到一张图。而Riemann则和他相反，他几乎立刻就把几何唤来作他的助手；他的每个观念都是一幅图像，一旦掌握它的含义，你就再也无法忘却。
More recently, Lie was an intuitionalist; this might have been doubted in reading his books, no one could doubt it after talking with him; you saw at once that he thought in pictures. Madame Kovalevski was a logician. 
更近一些的数学家中，Lie是一个直觉者；也许你看他的书的时候不这样想，但一旦你和他谈话，对此就不会怀疑了；你会立刻发现，他是用图画思考的。Kovalevski女士则是一个逻辑者。
Among our students we notice the same differences; some prefer to treat their problems ‘by analysis’, others ‘by geometry’. The first are incapable of ‘seeing in space’, the others are quickly tired of long calculations and become perplexed. 
在我们的学生中，也能看到相同的差别；有些学生偏爱“用分析”去解决问题，另外一些人则“用几何”。前者无法“看到空间”，而后者在接连的计算中很快就感到厌烦、变得迷惑。
The two sorts of minds are equally necessary for the progress of science; both the logicians and the intuitionalists have achieved great things that others could not have done. Who would venture to say whether he preferred that Weierstrass had never written or that there had never been a Riemann? Analysis and synthesis have then both their legitimate roles. But it is interesting to study more closely in the history of science the part which belongs to each. 
**这两种心智，对科学的发展是同样必要的**；逻辑者和直觉者都做到了对方不能做到的事情。谁敢说，他宁愿Weierstrass从没写过他的著作，或世上从没有一个Riemann？**分析**与**合成**，有着各自应当的角色。不过，在科学史中进一步研究它们各自的职责将会是有趣的。
（I 译完）

#p 21215720 Masonry Magnum Chaos 2019-10-28 10:51:53


2019-10-28 10:41:49
“数学中的直觉和逻辑”的I部分已译完，因为后面一篇文章的篇幅较长，而且作者已将文章分成小的部分，我将每段都另回一贴，这也是为方便读者阅读。
在数学中，直觉和逻辑的张力是最值得注意的事情了。庞加莱在以上文中举了一些著名数学家作为例子，具有相当的启发性。因此，再次推荐“数学中的直觉和逻辑”这篇文章。

#p 21225521 Masonry Magnum Chaos 2019-12-17 12:51:00


2019-10-29 20:38:19
Intuition and logic in mathematics
数学中的直觉和逻辑
**II**
**二**
Strange! If we read over the works of the ancients we are tempted to class them all among the intuitionalists. And yet nature is always the same; it is hardly probable that it has begun in this century to create minds devoted to logic. If we could put ourselves into the flow of ideas which reigned in their time, we should recognize that many of the old geometers were in tendency analysts. Euclid, for example, erected a scientific structure wherein his contemporaries could find no fault. In this vast construction, of which each piece however is due to intuition, we may still to-day without much effort, recognize the work of a logician.
奇怪！若去读早期数学家的著作，我们可能认为他们都是直觉者。然而，自然总是不变的；要说大自然在这世纪才开始创造擅长逻辑的心智，实在不太可能。如果身处于当时的思想源流中，我们会发现，那时就有许多几何学家具有分析学家的倾向。比如，欧几里得构筑的那个科学结构，在他的时代看起来是无可挑剔的。在这个宏伟的建构中，每一个部件都依直觉产生，但这在今天看来无疑是个逻辑者的杰作。
It is not minds that have changed, it is ideas; the intuitional minds have remained the same; but their readers have required of them greater concessions. 
**改变的并非心智，而是想法；直觉的心智仍和原来一样；不过，如今读者却要求他们作出更多退让。**
What is the cause of this evolution? It is not hard to find. Intuition can not give us rigor, nor even certainty; this has been recognized more and more. Let us cite some examples. We know there exist continuous functions lacking derivatives. Nothing is more shocking to intuition than this proposition which is imposed upon us by logic. Our fathers would not have failed to say:”It is evident that every continuous function has a derivative, since every curve has a tangent.”
是什么引起了这种演化？这不难回答。**因为直觉不能给我们严格性，甚至连确定性也不能保证；**这一点，我们看得愈发清楚。让我举几个例子。我们知道，存在一个不可导的连续函数。没什么比这更让我们的直觉惊讶了，而这一结论却也正是逻辑强加给我们的。我们的父辈却会毫不顾忌地说：“显然，每个连续函数均有导函数，因为每条曲线都有切线。”
How can intuition deceive us on this point? It is because when we seek to imagine a curve, we can not represent it to ourselves without width; just so, when we represent to ourselves a straight line, we see it under the form of a rectilinear band of a certain breadth. We well know these line have no width; we try to imagine them narrower and narrower and thus to approach the limit; so we do in a certain measure, but we shall never attain this limit. And then it is clear we can always picture these two narrow bands, one straight, one curved, in a position such that they encroach slightly one upon the other without crossing. We shall thus be led, unless warned by a rigorous analysis, to conclude that a curve always has a tangent. 
为什么直觉会在这一问题上欺骗我们？这是因为，我们在想象中画出一条曲线时，无法将它真正地表示为无宽度的曲线；同理，在想象直线时，我们看到的也是一个具宽度的直线。我们心中知道，这些线条没有宽度；因此我们把它想象得越来越细以趋近一个极限；我们可以做到某个程度，但却永不能真正达到这个极限。到此，事情已经清楚了：当我们想象的是一直一弯两个细带，当然可以使它们刚好触碰而不至于穿过彼此。若没有严格的分析学作为警戒，我们就会断言：每个曲线都有切线。
I shall take as second example Dirichlet’s principle on which rest so many theorems of mathematical physics; to-day we establish it by reasonings very rigorous but very long; heretofore, on the contrary, we were content with a very summary proof. A certain integral depending on an arbitrary function can never vanish. Hence it is concluded that it must have a minimum. The flaw in this reasoning strikes us immediately, since we use the abstract term function and are familiar with all the singularities functions can present when the word is understood in the most general sense. 
我举的第二个例子，是许多数学物理定律基于的Dirichlet原理；今天，我们已通过严格而冗长的推理建立了这一结果；但在此以前，一个非常笼统的证明就能让我们满意了。一个依赖于任意函数的特定积分恒不为零，因此，它一定会取得一个最小值。如今，我们立刻就能认识到这推理的缺陷，因为我们用的是“函数”一词最广泛的意思，而我们早已熟稔它在一般情况下可以具有的奇异性质。
But it would not be the same had we used concrete images, had we, for example, considered this function as an electric potential; it would have been thought legitimate to affirm that electrostatic equilibrium can be attained. Yet perhaps a physical comparison would have awakened some vague distrust. But if care had been taken to translate the reasoning into the language of geometry, intermediate between that of analysis and that of physics, doubtless this distrust would not have been produced, and perhaps one might thus, even to-day, still deceive many readers not forewarned. 
但如果我们用电势这样的具体图像作为函数，事情就不会如此了；也许你认为，我们可以合理地确信静电平衡能够达到。然而这种物理类比会引起一种模糊的怀疑感。但是，若我们把它翻译成几何——这门介于物理和分析之间的语言——那你可能连这丝疑虑都不会产生，而且它一定能骗过许多未被警示的读者。
Intuition, therefore, does not give us certainty. This is why the evolution had to happen; let us now see how it happened.
因此，直觉并不能给我们确定性。这就是为什么这场演化注定要发生；现在，让我们仔细看看它是如何发生的。
It was not slow in being noticed that rigor could not be introduced in the reasoning unless first made to enter into the definitions. For the most part the objects treated of by mathematicians were long ill defined; they were supposed to be known because represented by means of the senses or the imagination; but one had only a crude image of them and not a precise idea on which reasoning could take hold. It was there first that the logicians had to direct their efforts. 
严格的推理是以严格的定义作为基础的，特意指出来这一点并不冗余。总的来说，数学家们处理的对象长期以来一直是病态定义的；人们假设这些对象可以通过感官或想象来认识；但如此一来，人们就只能有一个大体印象，而没有可供严谨推理的准确概念。**因此，逻辑者必须先从定义着手。**
So, in the case of incommensurable numbers. The vague idea of continuity, which we owe to intuition, resolved itself into a complicated system of inequalities referring to whole numbers. 
事情对不可通约数而言，也是如此。连续性的模糊概念，是从我们的直觉而来的，而它最终被确定为一组涉及自然数的复杂不等式得以解决。
（注：whole numbers，其实是我们说的自然数：0, 1, 2, 3, 4... ）
By that means the difficulties arising from passing to the limit, or from the consideration of infinitesimals, are finally removed. Today in analysis only whole numbers are left or systems, finite or infinite, of whole numbers bound together by a net of equality or inequality relations. Mathematics, as they say, is arithmetized. 
以这种方式，我们终于解决了那些因趋向极限或考虑无穷小量造成的困难。今天，分析学中只剩下自然数，以及由等式与不等式共同约束而成的自然数系统。如人们所说，**数学被算术化了**。
(II 译完)

#p 21227672 Masonry Magnum Chaos 2019-10-30 01:29:36


2019-10-29 23:11:07
在“数学中的直觉和逻辑”的II节中，庞加莱简要说明了数学家的两种倾向的历史发展，并讲述了“数学的算术化”的历史动机。
一开始的数学家主要依赖直觉获得结果。这当然不是说，具有逻辑倾向的数学家只在近百年产生；实际上，数学家的这两种倾向早就出现了。在古希腊时，就有以欧几里得为代表的逻辑者；他做的几何原本，就是一个逻辑的建筑。
但直觉却有严重的问题——它可能导致与逻辑不相符的直观。我们今天知道，“每条曲线都有切线”是荒谬的。然而，某个时期的数学家却相信这件事情，原因在上面原文中提到过了。因此，为追求逻辑体系的自洽，避免直觉的误导，我们被迫走向逻辑化；这过程是缓慢的；直到最近，分析学才获得了一个完整而严谨的逻辑基础，这被称作“数学的算术化”。因为这种发展，现代数学具有了更严格的逻辑要求，直觉者也必须服从这种新的数学规范。然而，数学家不应将逻辑看作或当作心智的镣铐，而应看作事实的内在和谐的保障。直觉也不能丢弃，后文庞加莱将提到，它是我们唯一的向导。
原文中的这段文字，简述了数学分析呈现如今样貌的原因：

#p 21234976 Miky Mike 2019-10-30 22:04:37
楼主请继续。
楼主，普利斯狗昂。
#quote Masonry

#p 21235293 Masonry Magnum Chaos 2019-10-30 22:30:10
后天晚上会把III、IV一并放出来，敬请期待
#quote Miky

#p 21243927 Masonry Magnum Chaos 2019-11-17 22:33:18


2019-11-01 17:07:17
Intuition and logic in mathematics
数学中的直觉和逻辑
**III**
**三**
A first question presents itself. Is this evolution ended? Have we finally attained absolute rigor? At each stage of the evolution our fathers also thought they had reached it. If they deceived themselves, do we not likewise cheat ourselves?
一个问题出现了。这场演化在今天结束了吗？**我们终于达到了绝对的严格吗？**在这场演化的每个时期，我们的父辈都自认达到完全的严格了。如果他们都骗了自己，那我们会不会也是在自我欺骗呢？
We believe that in our reasonings we no longer appeal to intuition; the philosophers will tell us this is an illusion. Pure logic could never lead us to anything but tautologies; it could create nothing new; not from it alone can any science issue. In one sense these philosophers are right; to make arithmetic, as to make geometry, or to make any science, something else than pure logic is necessary. To designate this something else we have no word other than intuition. But how many different ideas are hidden under this same word?
我们相信我们的推理已不再依赖于直觉了；但哲学家会告诉我们，这是个错觉。**纯逻辑只能为我们提供重言式；它不能创造任何新的事物；单凭逻辑本身，是无法产生科学的。**在特定意义下，这些哲学家说的没错；为创造算术，创造几何，或创造任何一门科学，一些逻辑之外的东西是必需的。要形容这种东西，除“直觉”外我想不到更好的词了。**但在“直觉”这一词之下，究竟藏了多少种不同的意思？**
Compare these four axioms: (1) Two quantities equal to a third are equal to one another; (2) if a theorem is true of number 1 and if we prove that it is true of n+1 if true for n, then will it be true of all whole numbers; (3) if on a straight the point C is between A and B and the point D between A and C, then the point D will be between A and B; (4) through a given point there is not more than one parallel to a give straight. 
比较下面四条公理：（1）若两个量同时与第三个量相等，那么这两个量亦相等；（2）如果一个定理对自然数“1”成立且我们证明了它在对n成立时必对n+1成立，那么这个定理对所有自然数都将成立；（3）如果在一条直线上，点C位于A和B之间，而点D位于A和C之间，那么点D也在A、B之间；（4）给定一条直线，给定一点，则在该点上至多仅能做一条与给定直线平行的直线。
All four are attributed to intuition, and yet the first is the enunciation of one of the rules of formal logic; the second is a real synthetic a priori judgement, it is the foundation of rigorous mathematical induction; the third is an appeal to the imagination; the fourth is a disguised definition. 
这四条公理都可归于直觉，但第一条是在阐述形式逻辑中的一条规则；第二条，是一个真正的合成性的先验判断，它构成了严格数学归纳的基础；第三条需要诉诸想象；第四条其实是一个被掩藏了的定义。
Intuition is not necessarily founded on the evidence of the senses; the senses would soon become powerless; for example, we can not represent to ourselves a chiliagon, and yet we reason by intuition on polygons in general, which include the chiliagon as a particular case. 
**直觉不一定要建立在感官的证据上；否则我们的感官很快就无能为力了**；比如，我们不能想象一个千边形，然而我们却可以凭直觉对多边形进行一般的推理，而千边形则是一般推理的一个特例。
You know what Poncelet understood by the principle of continuity. What is true of a real quantity, said Poncelet, should be true of an imaginary quantity; what is true of hyperbola whose asymptotes are real, should then be true of the ellipse whose asymptotes are imaginary. Poncelet was one of the most intuitive minds of this century; he was passionately, almost ostentatiously, so; he regarded the principle of continuity as one of his boldest conceptions, and yet this principle did not rest on the evidence of the senses. To assimilate the hyperbola to the ellipse was rather to contradict this evidence. It was only a sort of precocious and instinctive generalization which, moreover, I have no desire to defend. 
你或许知道，Poncelet是怎么理解连续原理的。他说，对实数成立的，对虚数也必定成立；对具有实渐近线的双曲线成立的，对具有虚渐近线的椭圆也必定成立 。Poncelet的心智大概是本世纪最直觉的了；他热情地，几乎炫耀地展示着他的直觉；他将连续原理看作他最大胆的构想之一，然而这个构想却不依赖于感官的证据。他将双曲线合并到椭圆之中，反而是与感官证据背道而驰。那不过是一种出于本能的、过度早熟的泛化，而我并不想为之辩护。
We have then many kinds of intuition; first, the appeal to the sense and the imagination; next, generalization by induction, copied, so to speak, from the procedures of the experimental sciences; finally, we have intuition of pure number, where arose the second of the axioms just enunciated, which is able to create the real mathematical reasoning. I have shown above by examples that the first two can not give us certainty; but who will seriously doubt the third, who will doubt arithmetic?
**所以，我们的直觉其实有许多种；**第一种，是诉诸**感官和想象**的直觉；第二种，是由**归纳**产生的泛化，这种直觉可以说是从实验科学的程序中借鉴的；最终，我们还有关于**纯数字**的直觉，正是它给了我们上述的第二条公理（数学归纳原理），教会我们真正的数学推理。我已经说明了，前两种直觉并不能给我们确定性；然而，谁会怀疑第三种直觉，谁会怀疑算术呢？
Now in the analysis of today, when one cares to take the trouble to be rigorous, there can be nothing but syllogisms or appeals to this intuition of pure number, the only intuition which can not deceive us. It may be said that to-day absolute rigor is attained. 
在当今的分析学中，若有谁愿意自找麻烦去追求严格，他也不过是把三段论用于数字直觉罢了，而只有这种直觉不会欺骗我们。**可以说，在今天的分析学中，我们达到了完全的严格。**
（III 译完）

#p 21246571 Masonry Magnum Chaos 2019-11-13 03:07:15


2019-11-02 00:43:22
Intuition and logic in mathematics
数学中的直觉和逻辑
**IV**
**四**
The philosophers make still another objection:” What you gain in rigor,” they say, “you lose in objectivity. You can rise toward your logical ideal only by cutting the bonds which attach you to reality. Your science is infallible, but it can only remain so by imprisoning itself in an ivory tower and renouncing all relation with the external world. From this seclusion it must go out when it would attempt the slightest application. ”
哲学家们又发出了另一种反对的声音：“你在严格上的‘得’，均是在客观上的‘失’。**你尽可以上升到逻辑的理想境地，但作为代价，你必须断绝与现实的所有联系。**你的这门学问无懈可击，但它也注定永远囚禁于与世隔绝的象牙塔里。它如果想要获得哪怕一点应用，就必须走出这种孤僻。”
For example, I seek to show that some property pertains to some object whose concepts seems to me at first indefinable, because it is intuitive. At first I fail or must content myself with approximate proofs; finally I decide to give to my object a precise definition, and this enables me to establish this property in an irreproachable manner. 
举一个例子。假设我现在要说明一个对象具有某个性质，但因为这对象来自直觉，我一开始无法给出严格的定义。这时，我要么接受失败，要么就得满足于一个模糊的证明；后来，我终于能给这个对象一个精确的定义，这允许我无可反驳地建立起这个结果。
“And then,” say the philosophers, “it still remains to show that the object which corresponds to this definition is indeed the same made known to you by intuition; or else that some real and concrete object whose conformity with your intuitive idea you believe you immediately recognize corresponds to your new definition. Only then could you affirm that it has the property in question. You have only displaced the difficulty. ”
“即便如此，”这些哲学家说道，“我们还是无法确定，你所定义的对象就是你直觉中的那个对象；我们也无法确定，你直觉中的对象所代表的那个真实物体，和你用逻辑定义的对象是否一致。只有确认了这两点，你才能断言，你研究的对象具有你用逻辑证明的性质。你不过，是将困难转移了而已。”
That is not exactly so; the difficulty has not been displaced, it has been divided. The proposition to be established was in reality composed of two different truths, at first not distinguished. The first was a mathematical truth, and it is now rigorously established. The second was an experimental verity. Experience alone can teach us that some real and concrete object corresponds or does not correspond to some abstract definition. This second verity is not mathematically demonstrated, but neither can it be, no more than can the empirical laws of physical and natural sciences. It would be unreasonable to ask more. 
事情并非如此；我们不是把困难转移，而是把它分解了。**待建立的命题其实包含着两个不同的真理，它们原先是无法分辨的。**第一个是**数学上**的真理，我们已经把它严格地建立了。第二个则是**实验上**的真理。只有经验能告诉我们，一个真实对象是否对应于某个抽象定义。第二个真理在数学上没有被证明，也不能被证明，就像那些物理科学和自然科学的经验定律一样。若还要求得更多，就不合乎理性了。
Well, is it not a great advance to have distinguished what long was wrongly confused? Does this mean that nothing is left of this objection of the philosophers? That I do not intend to say; in becoming rigorous, mathematical science takes a character so artificial as to strike every one; it forgets its historical origins; we see how the questions can be answered, we no longer see how and why they are put.
我们已经把两个长期混淆的事物区分了，这难道不是很大的进步吗？但是这就能说明哲学家的疑虑被完全打消了吗？我并不是这个意思；在严格化的过程中，数学科学已具有了太过人为的特征；它忘记了自己的历史渊源；我们只能看到问题如何被解答，却看不到问题是如何、因何而被提出的。
This shows us that logic is not enough; that the science of demonstration is not all science and that intuition must retain its role as complement, I was about to say, as counterpoise or as antidote of logic.
这告诉我们，**只有逻辑是不够的**；证明的学问并非科学的全部，而直觉必须保留它与逻辑互补的角色，甚至充当逻辑的解毒药。
I have already had occasion to insist on the place intuition should hold in the teaching of the mathematical sciences. Without it young minds could not make a beginning in the understanding of mathematics; they could not learn to love it and would see in it only a vain logomachy; above all, without intuition they would never become capable of applying mathematics. But now I wish before all to speak of the role of intuition in science itself. If it is useful to the student, it is still more so to the creative scientist. 
我现在终于得到一个机会，来主张直觉在数学教育中的地位了。若没有直觉，年轻人永远不能开始理解数学；他们也不可能学会热爱数学，而只会把它当成无聊的文字游戏；更重要的是，若没有直觉，他们就永远都无法掌握使用数学的能力。然而，我现在更希望讨论的是直觉在科学中的重要性。**如果直觉对学生有用，那它对创造性的科学家就更是如此了。**
（IV 译完）
（参考了@Miky的翻译，十分感谢）

#p 21250717 Masonry Magnum Chaos 2019-12-05 11:43:13


2019-11-02 23:42:47
Intuition and logic in mathematics
数学中的直觉和逻辑
**V**
**五**
We seek reality, but what is reality? The physiologists tell us that organisms are formed of cells; the chemists add that cells themselves are formed of atoms. Does this mean that these atoms or these cells constitute reality, or rather the sole reality? The way in which these cells are arranged and from which results the unity of the individual, is not it also a reality much more interesting than that of the isolated elements, and should a naturalist who had never studied the elephant except by means of the microscope think himself sufficiently acquainted with that animal?
我们追寻现实，但什么是现实？生理学家说，有机体是由细胞组成的；化学家接着补充说，细胞是由原子组成的。这是不是意味着这些原子或细胞构成了现实，甚至是唯一的现实？这些细胞排列的方式导致了个体的统一性，这种统一的现实不是比隔绝的基元更值得研究吗？**假如一个自然主义者只用显微镜观察过大象，他会觉得自己很了解这个动物吗？**
Well, there is something analogous to this in mathematics. The logician cuts up, so to speak, each demonstration into a very great number of elementary operations; when we have examined these operations one after the other and ascertained that each is correct, are we to think we have grasped the real meaning of the demonstration? Shall we have understood it even when, by an effort of memory, we have become able to repeat this proof by reproducing all these elementary operations in just the order in. Which the inventor had arranged them? Evidently not; we shall not yet possess the entire reality; that I know not what which makes the unity of the demonstration will completely elude us. 
数学中，也有相似的情形。逻辑学家将每一个论证分割成多个简单运算；在我们逐个检验了每一步运算后，我们一定就把握了它真正的含义吗？更进一步，假如我凭记忆把整个论证背诵下来，并且能按原顺序把论证完整地重复一遍，我可以说自己明白了吗？显然不行；因为**我们没有完全掌握现实的全部**；我仍不知道是什么将论证结为一体，因此，我并没有理解它。
Pure analysis puts at our disposal a multitude of procedures whose infallibility it guarantees; it opens to us a thousand different ways on which we can embark in all confidence; we are assured of meeting there no obstacles; but of all these ways, which will lead us most promptly to our goal? Who shall tell us which to choose? We need a faculty which makes us see the end from afar, and intuition is this faculty. It is necessary to the explorer for choosing his route; it is not less so to the one following his trail who wants to know why he chose it. 
纯分析给了我们一系列可靠的操作；它向我们开启了一千条大道，而这一千条都是可信的；我们确信在这些道路上不会遇到障碍；但在这些道路中，哪条路能最快的把我们引向目标呢？**谁能告诉我们应该选择哪一条路？我们需要的，是一个让我们在远处就能看见终点的官能，而直觉就是这个官能。**直觉是探索者必需的，因为他必须选择一条道路；那些跟随他的脚步、希望理解他为何如此选择的人，也同样需要直觉。
If you are present at a game of chess, it will not suffice, for the understanding of the game, to know the rules for moving the pieces. That will only enable you to recognize that each move has been made conformably to these rules, and this knowledge will truly have very little value. Yet this is what the reader of a book on mathematics would do if he were a logician only. To understand the game is wholly another matter; it is to know why the player moves this piece rather than that other which he could have moved without breaking the rules of the game. It is to perceive the inward reason which makes of this series of successive moves a sort of organized whole. This faculty is still more necessary for the player himself, that is, for the inventor.
观看一局象棋游戏时，**了解象棋规则并不足以让你理解一局游戏。**它只能帮助你判断棋局中的每一步都符合规则，而这类知识的价值不高。然而这正是一个纯逻辑者在读数学书时所做的事情。要理解一局游戏，则完全是另一回事了。这像是要理解一个玩家为何移动一枚棋子而不是另一枚棋子，虽然两者同样符合规则。这是**对内心推理的感知**，而正是这种内心推理将相继多步棋塑造为一个结构性的整体。**这一官能，对玩家或创造者而言更是不可或缺的。**
Let us drop this comparison and return to mathematics. For example, see what has happened to the idea of continuous function. At the outset this was only a sensible image, for example, that of a continuous mark traced by the chalk on a blackboard. Then it became little by little more refined; ere long it was used to construct a complicated system of inequalities, which reproduced, so to speak, all the lines of the original image; this construction finished, the centering of the arch, so to say, was removed, that crude representation which had temporarily served as support and which was afterward useless was rejected; there remained only the construction itself, irreproachable in the eyes of the logician. And yet if the primitive image had totally disappeared from our recollection, how could we divine by what caprice all these inequalities were erected in this fashion one upon another? 
以上的类比暂告一段落，让我们回到关于数学的讨论中。作为例子，我们先看看连续函数这一概念的演变。最初，它不过是一个可感知的图像而已，就如同粉笔在黑板上画出的连续痕迹。之后它被逐渐改进；而在不久前，这个图像被用于构建一组复杂的不等式，这组不等式涵盖了所有可能的连续图像；一旦这个构造完成，“拱门的支架”就可以拆除了，而作为支架的粗略图像不再有用，因此我们将它丢弃；现在，唯有已完成的构造被保留下来，它在逻辑者看来是无可指责的。但是，**如果这些简陋图像从我们的回忆中消失，我们要怎么知道，这些不等式最初是出于什么目的、按如此复杂的方式堆叠的呢？**
Perhaps you think I use too many comparisons; yet pardon still another. You have doubtless seen those delicate assemblages of silicious needles which form the skeleton of certain sponges. When the organic matter has disappeared, there remains only a frail and elegant lace-work. True, nothing is there except silica, but what is interesting is the form this silica has taken, and we could not understand it if we did not know the living sponge which has given it precisely this form. Thus it is that the old intuitive notions of our fathers, even when we have abandoned them, still imprint their form upon the logical constructions we have put in their place.
或许，你已对这么多类比感到不耐烦了；但请原谅我再提一个。你一定曾见过那些由硅针形成的精美聚集物，是它们构成了海绵的骨架。当有机物消失后，就只剩下一副无比脆弱又典美的网状结构了。的确，这结构中除硅以外别无他物，但有趣的并非硅本身，而是硅所形成的结构。假如我们不知道，其实是生存其间的海绵决定了骨架的形式，那么我们将永远无法真正理解这一结构。与此相类，我们父辈的那些古老的直觉观念，在取而代之的逻辑构造中仍然铭着它们的刻印，虽然我们早已将其遗弃。
This view of the aggregate is necessary for the inventor; it is equally necessary for whoever wishes really to comprehend the inventor. Can logic give it to us? No; the name mathematicians give it would suffice to prove this. In mathematics logic is called analysis and analysis means division, dissection. It can have, therefore, no tool other than the scalpel and the microscope. 
对创造者而言，这种看待聚集物的观点不可或缺；对那些希望理解创造者的人而言，也是如此。逻辑能给我们这种观点吗？不能；数学家给逻辑起的名字，就足以说明这一问题。在数学中，逻辑被称为“分析”，而**“分析”的意思是“分解，剖析”**。所以，它最多也只有解剖刀和显微镜这一类的工具。
Thus logic and intuition have each their necessary role. Each is indispensable. Logic, which alone can give certainty, is the instrument of demonstration; intuition is the instrument of invention. 
因此，逻辑和直觉各有各的本职。两者均不可或缺。**唯有逻辑能给我们确定性，它是论证的器具；直觉，则是创造的器具。**
（V 译完）
（参考了@Miky的翻译，再次感谢）

#p 21266635 Masonry Magnum Chaos 2019-12-17 12:59:58


2019-11-05 18:03:03
Intuition and logic in mathematics
数学中的直觉与逻辑
**VI**
**六**
But at the moment of formulating this conclusion I am seized with scruples. At the outset I distinguished two kinds of mathematical minds, the one sort logicians and analysts, the others intuitionalists and geometers. Well, the analysts also have been inventors. The names I have just cited make my insistence on this unnecessary. 
然而，就在得到结论的一刻，我被一些疑虑困扰了。一开始，我将数学心智分为两类：一类是逻辑者和分析学家，另一类是直觉者和几何学家。当然**，分析学家中也有不少数学的创造者。**这一点，只需回想我前文提过的那些名字就不言而喻了。
Here is a contradiction, at least apparently, which needs explanation. And first, do you think these logicians have always proceeded from the general to the particular, as the rules of formal logic would seem to require of them? Not thus could they have extended the boundaries of science; scientific conquest is to be made only by generalization. 
这是个矛盾，至少看起来是，因此我需要进一步解释。首先，难道你觉得逻辑者都是按照形式逻辑的规则从一般推及具体的吗？假如真是这样，那么逻辑者就不可能延伸科学的边界了；**因为只有泛化能让科学前进。**
In one of the chapters of ‘Science and Hypothesis’, I have had occasion to study the nature of mathematical reasoning, and I have shown how this reasoning, without ceasing to be absolutely rigorous, could lift us from the particular to the general by a procedure I have called mathematical induction. It is by this procedure that the analysts have made science progress, and if we examine the detail itself of their demonstrations, we shall find it there at each instant beside the classic syllogism of Aristotle. We, therefore, see already that the analysts are not simply makers of syllogisms after the fashion of the scholastics. 
在“科学与假设”的某一章中，我曾论及数学推理的本质，我还说明了这种推理如何在不失严格性的前提下把我们从具体提升到一般，我称这方法为“数学归纳法”。通过这一方法，分析学家们不断推进着科学前进。如果我们仔细研读他们的论证，会发现数学归纳法与亚里士多德的三段论一样随处可见。因此我们看到，分析学家并不像经院学者那样只知道制造三段论。
Besides, do you think they have always marched step by step with no vision of the goal they wished to attain? They must have divined the way leading thither, and for that they needed a guide. This guide is, first, analogy. For example, one of the methods of demonstration dear to analysts is that founded on the employment of dominant functions. We know it has already served to solve a multitude of problems; in what consists then the role of the inventor who wishes to apply it to a new problem? At the outset he must recognize the analogy of this question with those which have already be solved by this method; then he must perceive in what way this new question differs from the others, and thence deduce the modifications necessary to apply the methods. 
此外，难道你以为分析学家在步步前行时看不见目标吗？既然他们能找到通往目标的路，他们就一定有一个向导。**这向导，首先是类比。**比如，分析学家最亲近的一种论证方法，是建立于控制函数的使用上的。如你所知，这方法已帮他们解决了一系列问题；当一个发明者把这个方法施用于新问题时，他会起到什么功能呢？首先，他需要识别出新问题与已解决的问题之间的相似性；然后，他必须看到这个问题与其他问题的差别，然后再推测出，为了运用此方法他需要添加何种修饰。
But how does one perceive these analogies and these differences? In the example just cited they are almost always evident, but I could have found others where they would have been much more deeply hidden; often a very uncommon penetration is necessary for their discovery. The analyst, not to let these hidden analogies escape them, that is, in order to be inventors, must without the aid of senses and imagination, have a direct sense of what constitutes the unity of a piece of reasoning, of what makes, so to speak, its soul and inmost life. 
但如何感知这种类比和差异呢？在上一个例子中，这再明显不过了，但我本可以举出隐藏的更深的例子；通常，这种发现需要一个非同寻常的顿悟作为前提。分析学家不让这些隐藏的相似性逃脱他的眼睛，为了**创造，他必须在感官和想象的辅助之外找到一种特殊的知觉，以捕捉一段推理中的统一性；这种统一性，可以说是一段推理的灵魂，也构成了它的最内在的生命。**
When one talked with M. Hermite, he never evoked a sensuous image, and yet you soon perceived that the most abstract entities were for him like living beings. He did not see them, but he perceived that they are not an artificial assemblage, and that they have some principle of internal unity. 
Hermite先生在说话时从不调动一个感官的图像，但你很快就会发觉，即使是那些最抽象的实体，对他而言也如同有灵之物一般。他从没有看见它们，但却知道它们并非人造的堆砌物，而具有某种内在统一的原则。
But, one will say, that still is intuition. Shall we conclude that the distinction made at the outset was only apparent, that there is only one sort of mind and that all mathematicians are intuitionalists, at least those who are capable of inventing?
然而你可能认为这仍应算作直觉。那么我们是不是应该认为，最初的那种分辨不过是表象而已——所有数学家其实都是直觉者，或至少那些有创造力的数学家都是？
No, our distinction corresponds to something real. I have said above that there are many kinds of intuition. I have said how much the intuition of pure number, whence comes rigorous mathematical induction, differ from sensible intuition to which the imagination, properly so called, is the principal contributor. 
并非如此，我们对数学家的区分对应于某种真实的东西。我在上面提到过，**直觉其实分许多种**。我也指出了纯数的直觉与感官的直觉之间的差别有多大，前者给了我们严格的数学归纳法，而后者是想象力的主要贡献者。
Is the abyss which separates them less profound than it first appeared? Could we recognize with a little attention that this pure intuition itself could not do without the aid of the senses? This is the affair of the psychologist and the metaphysician and I shall not discuss the question. But the thing’s being doubtful is enough to justify me in recognizing and affirming an essential difference between the two kinds of intuition; they have not the same object and seem to call into play two different faculties of our soul; one would think of two search-lights directed upon two worlds strangers to one another. 
这个深渊是不是并不像初看之下那般不可逾越？**如果我们稍加注意，会不会发现这种纯数的直觉也同样要求感官的帮助？**这就是心理学家和形而上学家关心的事了，我在此不再多提。不过，我们的这种疑问就已足以说明这两种直觉中存在着根源上的区别；它们的对象不同，而且似乎运用了我们灵魂中的不同官能；它们就像两盏探灯，分别照向两个不相往来的世界。
It is the intuition of pure number, that of pure logical forms, which illumines and directs those we have called analysts. This it is which enables them not alone to demonstrate, but also to invent. By it they perceive at a glance the general plan of a logical edifice, and that too without the senses appearing to intervene. In rejecting the aid of the imagination, which, as we have seen, is not always infallible, they can advance without fear of deceiving themselves. Happy, therefore, are those who can do without this aid! We must admire them; but how rare they are!
**正是这种纯数的直觉、逻辑形式的直觉，照亮了分析学的世界，指引着分析学家前进。**这种直觉使分析学家不仅能论证，还能创造。通过这种直觉，他们能够在远处就看见逻辑大厦的全景，而这个本领看似没有感官的参与。他们拒绝了有时并不可靠的想象的辅助，因而可以无所畏惧的前进，而无需担心自己被想象欺骗。真幸福，那些无需这种辅助的人！我们应当崇拜他们，但他们是多么罕见！
Among the analysts there will then be inventors, but they will be few. The majority of us, if we wished to see afar by pure intuition alone, would soon feel ourselves seized with vertigo. Our weakness has need of a staff more solid, and, despite the exceptions of which we have just spoken, it is none the less true that sensible intuition is in mathematics the most usual instrument of invention. 
因此，在分析学家中也会有创造者，但数目不多。我们大多数人，如果尝试通过纯直觉眺望远方，很快就会发现自己陷入眩晕之中。我们的弱点迫使我们用一根更坚固的拐杖。虽说也有刚才提及的那些例外，但感官的直觉仍是数学中最常见的发明的器具。
Apropos of these reflections, a question comes up that I have not the time either to solve or even to enunciate with the developments it would admit of. Is there room for a new distinction, for distinguishing among the analysts those who above all use this pure intuition and those who are first of all preoccupied with formal logic?
关于这些思考，我们还有一个问题尚未详细发展和阐明，甚至还没来得及提出。**我们是否可以再做一个区分，继续将分析学家再分为两类：一类惯于运用这种纯直觉，而另一类长于逻辑？**
M. Hermite, for example, whom I have just cited, can not be classed among the geometers who make use of the sensible intuition; but neither is he a logician, properly so called. He does not conceal his aversion to purely deductive procedures which start from the general and end in the particular.
比如刚才提到的Hermite先生，他不能被归类为运用感官直觉的几何学家；但他也不是真正的逻辑者。他毫不掩饰自己对从一般到特殊的纯粹演绎推理的厌恶。
（本篇完） 
（注：关于deduction，induction，reasoning的翻译的意见。“deduction”常被翻译成“演绎”或“推理”，但它和“演绎”没有什么联系。时至今日，“演绎”一词已有了更流行的意思，再读到时难免一头雾水，这是盲从日本译词所致的后遗症；若是翻译成“推理”，则又容易和reasoning弄混。与之成对的“induction”译为“归纳”，还基本算是合乎情理。严复，我们的首任校长，曾将这三个词作如下翻译：内籀induction、外籀deduction、思籀reasoning，“籀”通“抽”和“紬”，“抽绎”或“紬绎”有“引申、演绎”的意思，此前他曾作如此翻译：induction内导、deduction外导，这是由“-duct”直译而来，这词根有“引导”之意，这其实是一个值得采纳的翻译。“in-”“de-”，倒是不一定要翻译成“内”“外”。又或者，不妨利用“普遍在上，特殊在下”的直观，将induction翻译为“引道”或“引达”，deduction“递道”或“递达”，刚好取了英文的谐音。总之，这几个翻译得相当随机的词，已经引起了太多混淆，今天应当做出一些改变。）

#p 21272318 Masonry Magnum Chaos 2019-11-06 17:30:22


2019-11-06 17:22:37
“数学中的直觉和逻辑”到此翻译完了，两周之内暂不更新。

#p 21283090 wenxijc snowflakes|小雪 2019-11-08 12:46:03
好高质量的帖子，有空了来读一下，我是说，有空了……
#quote Masonry

#p 21283331 wenxijc snowflakes|小雪 2019-11-08 13:44:17


2019-11-08 13:22:16
#quote Masonry
～～～～～～～～～～～～～～～～～～～～～～～～～～～～～～～
这个地方，我觉得并不是贬义吧，也没有轻看的意思，只是作者不想在这个话题上歪楼了。
从上下文来看，作者对Poncelet的intuitions是推崇的。
（我的内心剧场（摁住）：Poncelet这个大天才！丝毫没有黑点。）

#p 21283454 Masonry Magnum Chaos 2019-11-08 13:45:06
谢谢您的建议。可否麻烦您详细解释一下上下文中表明作者对Poncelet的态度的地方，我觉得这段中情感几乎是中性的。我这里的翻译保留了原文的用词，而且就我理解，"I have no desire to defend"，直接的意思是“我不渴望为之辩护”，在我理解起来，应该是稍带负面的情感，再加上instinctive和precocious都稍带贬义。如果是不想偏题，他可以像之前说"it is not what I wish to discuss. "
#quote wenxijc

#p 21283499 wenxijc snowflakes|小雪 2019-11-08 13:54:27
先说一句可能是我本身对Poncelet的评价会带来偏见。
其实我读到原文的时候也觉得有点奇怪，确实如你所说这几个词都是带有负面情感的。但是这种负面情感，如果是针对Poncelet的话，来得有点莫名其妙，因为我感觉里，上下文中毫无负面评价其 intuitions 的铺垫。
不过确实有见过那个年代的人这样的写法，就是用 I have no desire to do something 表达一种实际上是中性的含义。具体例子一时间我举不出来，接下来如果我想到了的话会来更新。
--------------
我刚才想到一种理解，就是有可能这里的intuition指的是 那种assimilation 所 contradict 的那种意义上的直觉；那种直觉和Poncelet的直觉是相悖的。
也许我的偏见确实会影响我对文章的判断吧，我再想想。
#quote Masonry

#p 21283533 Masonry Magnum Chaos 2019-11-08 14:03:56


2019-11-08 14:01:33
单论论述的功能，这一段应该意在说明不是所有的intuition都依赖于感官，前一段的千边形（chiliagon）就是为了阐明这个论点，这一段引用Poncelet的例子，指出了intuition甚至可能与sense相悖，我想总的功能是指出intuition和sense之间没有必然的联系，使用sense的intuition只是其中的一种而已，这个（intuition的种类）应该在后文会再次提到。
#quote wenxijc

#p 21283542 wenxijc snowflakes|小雪 2019-11-08 14:02:36
好的 我再看看后文再想想
#quote Masonry

#p 21335388 kingsfoil kingsfoil 2019-11-16 14:24:48
关于deduction和induction，我第一次接触deduction是在福尔摩斯的探案故事里...
“这一位先生，具有医务工作者的风度，但却是一副军人气概。那么，显见他是个军医。他是刚从热带回来，因为他脸色黝黑，但是，从他手腕的皮肤黑白分明看来，这并不是他原来的肤色。他面容憔悴，这就清楚地说明他是久病初愈而又历尽了艰苦。他左臂受过伤，现在动作看来还有些僵硬不便。试问，一个英国的军医在热带地方历尽艰苦，并且臂部负过伤，这能在什么地方呢？自然只有在阿富汗了。”
这里的推理过程抽象来说是这样的：
x属于A的子集A'--&gt;x属于A
x属于B的子集B'--&gt;x属于B
A交B={x_0}--&gt;x=x_0
但公认duck test是属于induction的（至少wikipedia上是这么归类的）：
x看起来像鸭子
x叫起来像鸭子
--&gt; x是一只鸭子
至今迷惑中，deduction和induction只取决于A交B是否只包含一个元素吗?
#quote Masonry

#p 21337487 lyshv 道尘疏柵 2019-11-16 23:18:55


2019-11-16 23:17:07
码一下，过几天后再来。
#quote Masonry

#p 21338215 wenxijc snowflakes|小雪 2019-11-17 06:47:04
deduction是演绎（是完全的） induction叫归纳（是不完全的）
然鹅数学归纳法是完全的，就emmmmm
#quote kingsfoil

#p 21341468 Masonry Magnum Chaos 2019-11-17 22:30:13


2019-11-17 20:50:27
我对这两个词是这样理解的：induction(bottom-up logic)是从个例、具体的前提，推出的总体、普遍的结论，其中就包括通过观察个例推断整体的推理；deduction(top-down logic)与之相反，是从普遍推出个例，比如公理化体系中的推理。
其实我也一直有些怀疑，福尔摩斯中的“科学演绎法”这一名称是否准确。福尔摩斯对人的判断显然和duck test是类似的，都是根据某一实例的一些具体特征及其组合（风度、气概、肤色、面容、左臂受伤等），判断这一实例的抽象性质（职业、经历），再根据抽象性质推及其更多特征和心理动机等等。但事实上，福尔摩斯的推断只可能是概率上的，因为他不能“逻辑”地证明这个人曾在阿富汗做军医，除非直接观测结果，但那样就不是“演绎”了。
通常说的演绎，指的是在确定性的逻辑系统下进行从普遍到个例的推理，恰好与福尔摩斯进行的推理是相反的。而现代法庭所通用的用于综合证据做推断的工具，应该是统计学的，而非形式逻辑的。所以，福尔摩斯使用的方法在本质上应该与统计相近，而不是逻辑推理。我想，福尔摩斯大多数时候应该不会使用Bayes公式，至少在小说中没有这样描述（虽然在某一改编版本中，他的父母是数学家，但或许福尔摩斯有较强的叛逆精神，没有学习数学，而是去学习了更重要的东西，比如amo, amas, amat）。我们只能猜测，他的直觉与统计学的规律吻合的很好。当然这并不容易，因为即便是牛顿这样的大数学家也曾因概率直觉的不准确而犯错误。这恰好说明，他既然是如此出色的一个侦探，就不可能依赖于“演绎推理法”来断案，因为统计学常常给出一些违背逻辑直觉的结论，比如“幸存者偏差”。历史上的赌徒深知这一点，所以他们才求助于数学家，而我们因此有了概率论。再者，福尔摩斯所选用的特征并不是逻辑的，而基本上是基于直觉的；比如“风度”和“气概”，这些都是非常高层次的特征，不是能够确凿观察的底层特征，而是需要大量经验的训练才能形成的特征；因此，其在本质上也是统计的。如果人要对福尔摩斯的这种智慧惊叹，那也该是对他的大脑作为统计机器的效能的赞叹。
总而言之，他的推理是归纳的、统计的、直觉的、合成的，而不是逻辑的、演绎的、分析的。甚至，有统计学课本多次引用福尔摩斯的片段，这也可见一斑。柯南道尔想通过刻画福尔摩斯的“逻辑推理能力”的出色来突出他的天才，在现在看来，好像有些弄巧成拙了。用庞加莱的术语来说，对侦探而言，直觉似乎比逻辑更重要。人们通常刻板地认为，诸如牛顿这样的科学家，或像福尔摩斯这样的大侦探，首要的本领在逻辑推理。这是个谬误，不论是牛顿还是福尔摩斯，他进行逻辑推理的能力都不比经院哲学家的更好，而这就像庞加莱在文章中指出的：“唯有泛化能使科学前进”；其实，正是泛化和归纳这种在大众看来平淡无奇的能力给了我们最有力的科学理论。再进一步说，不少虚构作品几乎把“逻辑”看成天才的唯一标准，这是很可笑的——人的所有天才都是直觉上的天才，而运用逻辑的直觉只是其中一种。
#quote kingsfoil

#p 21387323 lyshv 道尘疏柵 2019-11-24 19:30:57
再码一下，本周是不是要上新？
#quote Masonry

#p 21387485 Masonry Magnum Chaos 2019-11-24 20:19:17
最近比较忙，所以翻译的较慢。稍等一下会把一节放上来。
这几周更新会比较缓慢，请各位读者多包涵，谢谢。
#quote lyshv

#p 21387548 Masonry Magnum Chaos 2019-12-07 01:00:51


2019-11-24 20:35:44
The measure of time
时间的测量
**I**
**一**
So long as we do not go outside the domain of consciousness, the notion of time is relatively clear. Not only do we distinguish without difficulty present sensation from the remembrance of past sensations or the anticipation of future sensations, but we know perfectly well what we mean when we say that, of two conscious phenomena which we remember, one was anterior to the other; or that, of two foreseen conscious phenomena, one will be anterior to the other.
只要我们不走出意识的范围，时间的观念就还算相对清楚。我们不仅可以辨别此刻的知觉和过去的回忆，还能分辨此刻的知觉与对未来知觉的预期。而且，当我们说在意识中发生过的两个现象有前后之分，或者说在意识中预见的两个现象有前后之分时，我们无疑能明白自己是什么意思。
When we say that two conscious facts are simultaneous, we mean that they profoundly interpenetrate, so that analysis can not separate them without mutilating them. 
当我们说意识中的两个事实同时发生，其实是在说，这两个现象互相渗透的相当彻底，以至于我们无法通过分析将之分离。
The order in which we arrange conscious phenomena does not admit of any arbitrariness. It is imposed upon us and of it we can change nothing.
我们将事实在意识中排列的方法并不是任意的。这个顺序是强加于我们的，对它我们并不能改变什么。
I have only a single observation to add. For an aggregate of sensations to have become a remembrance capable of classification in time, it must have ceased to be actual, we must have lost the sense of its infinite complexity, otherwise it would have remained present. It must, so to speak, have crystallized around a center of associations of ideas which will be a sort of label. It is only when they thus have lost all life that we can classify our memories in time as a botanist arranges dried flowers in his herbarium. 
关于这个话题，我只想再补充一点。如果一个由知觉构成的的聚集体已经成为了回忆而可在时间上划分了，那么我们必定已经失去了它的无限的复杂度，否则，它就一定还在进行。不妨这么说，这万千思绪必定已在它们联结的中心结晶，而这中心就成了一个标签。只有它们失去了生命之后，我们才能将它们在记忆中归类，就像一个植物学家在他的标本馆里摆放早已干枯的花。
But these labels can only be finite in number. On that score, psychologic time should be discontinuous. Whence comes the feeling that between any two instants there are others? We arrange our recollections in time, but we know that there remain empty compartments. How could that be, if time were not a form preexistent in our mind? How could we know there were empty compartments, if these compartments were revealed to us only by their content?
然而这些标签的数量最多是有限的。如果是这样，那么心理时间应是间断的。那么，为什么我们会认为在每两个时刻之间都还有其它的时刻？我们将回忆在时间之上摆放，但我们知道它们中间总有空置的区域。如果时间不是在脑中预先存在的概念，这怎么可能发生呢？设想，如果有一些房间，它们只在盛装内容时才对我们可见，那我们怎么会发现其中仍有空着的房间？
(I 译完)

#p 21387563 Wizarding wizarding 2019-11-24 20:41:25
辛苦了
#quote Masonry

#p 21387622 Masonry Magnum Chaos 2019-11-24 22:23:47


2019-11-24 20:53:55
The measure of time
**II**
**二**
But that is not all; into this form we wish to put not only the phenomena of our own consciousness, but those of which other consciousnesses are the theater. But more, we wish to put there physical facts, these I know not what with which we people space and which no consciousness sees directly. This is necessary because without it science could not exist. In a word, psychologic time is given to us and must needs create scientific and physical time. There the difficulty begins, or rather the difficulties, for there are two. 
但问题还不只如此；我们不仅要将意识中的现象放入这一形式之中，还需要把发生于其他意识中的现象也放入其中。不但如此，我们还希望把物理现象也包括进去，而我知道，这些物理现象并非人们用于充斥空间而无法直接看见的那些东西。我们必须这样做，否则就没有科学了。总之，心理时间是天生的，但我们必须自己建立科学上的和物理上的时间。真正的困难从这开始，实际上，我们面对的不只一个困难，而是两个。
Think of two consciousnesses, which are like two worlds impenetrable one to the other. By what do we strive to put them into the same mold, to measure them by the same standard? Is it not as if one strove to measure length with a gram or weight with a meter? And besides, why do we speak of measuring?  We know perhaps that some fact is anterior to some other, but not by how much it is anterior.
让我们假想两个意识，它们就如同相互隔绝的两个世界一样。我们要怎么才能把它们放入同一个模具，来用共同的尺度去测量它们呢？这不是像用“克”作为单位来测量长度，或者用“米”来测量重量吗？而且，我们为什么用了“测量”一词？我们或许知道一些事实发生在另一些之前，但却无法确知具体在其之前多少。
Therefore two difficulties: (1) Can we transform psychologic time, which is qualitative, into a quantitative time? (2) Can we reduce to one and the same measure facts which transpire in different worlds?
所以，有两重困难：（1）我们能否将定性的心理时间转化为一种定量的时间？（2）我们能否将散布于不同世界的事实化简为一种通用的测量方式？
(II 译完)

#p 21388093 Masonry Magnum Chaos 2019-12-07 00:52:40


2019-11-24 21:52:19
The measure of time
时间的测量
**III**
**三**
The first difficulty has long been noticed; it has been the subject of long discussions and one may say the question is settled. We have not a direct intuition of the equality of two intervals of time. The persons who believe they possess this intuition are dupes of an illusion. When I say, from noon to one the same time passes as from two to three, what meaning has this affirmation?
前一种困难早已被注意到了；人们关于这一论题进行了许多探讨，我们可以说这问题已解决了。**我们没有关于时长相等的直觉。**那些自以为有这一直觉的人，不过是错觉的受害者罢了。当我说“自正午至一点的时长与自二点至三点的时长相同”，这句话表明了什么意思？
The least reflection shows that by itself it has none at all. It will only have that which I choose to give it, by a definition which will certainly possess a certain degree of arbitrariness. Psychologists could have done without this definition; physicists and astronomers could not; let us see how they have managed. 
只要稍加思索，我们就认清这句话没有任何含义。它只有我选择给它的含义，而这是由我们的定义决定的，因此它必定带有一定程度的任意性。即使没有这个定义，心理学家也不受多少影响，但物理学家和天文学家就不行了；让我们看看他们是怎么应对这个问题的。
To measure time they use the pendulum and they suppose by definition that all the beats of this pendulum are of equal duration. But this is only a first approximation; the temperature, the resistance of the air, the barometric pressure, make the pace of the pendulum vary. If we could escape these sources of error, we should obtain a much closer approximation, but it would still be only an approximation. New causes, hitherto neglected, electric, magnetic or others, would introduce minute perturbations. 
**为测量时间，他们采用了钟摆，并假定钟摆一拍的时长是固定的。然而，这只是粗略的初步近似而已；**温度、空气阻力、气压都会改变钟摆的步伐。如果我们能逃离这些误差，我们就得到了一个更精确的近似，但这仍仅仅是近似。那些我们尚未注意到的因素（比如电磁效应或其他效应），仍会引入微小的扰动。
In fact, the best chronometers must be corrected from time to time, and the corrections are made by the aid of astronomic observations; arrangements are made so that the sidereal clock marks the same hour when the same star passes the meridian. In other words, it is the sidereal day, that is, the duration of the rotation of the earth, which is the constant unit of time. It is supposed, by a new definition substituted for that based on the beats of the pendulum, that two complete rotations of the earth about its axis have the same duration.
实际上，即使最精密的计时器也需要不断的更正，更正的依据是天文观测；这种更正使得同一星体每次跨过子午线时，恒星时钟都指向同一时刻。换言之，恒星时间——也就是地球自转一周的时长——是我们的不变的时间单位。我们用这一新定义替换基于钟摆的旧定义时，相当于假设了地球的两次完整自转时长相同。
However, the astronomers are still not content with this definition. Many of them think that the tides act as a check on our globe, and that the rotation of the earth is becoming slower and slower. Thus would be explained the apparent acceleration of the motion of the moon, which would seem to be going more rapidly than theory permits because our watch, which is the earth, is going slow. 
然而，天文学家对这个定义仍不满意。不少天文学家认为潮汐对地球的旋转起到阻碍作用，因此地球自转的自转也越来越慢。这可以解释为什么月球运动的加速超出了我们的理论所允许的范围，这是因为我们的时钟——也就是地球——正在不断的减慢。
(III 译完)

#p 21388276 Homagod 不愉快です 2019-11-24 22:42:46
孤陋寡闻的我
#quote Masonry

#p 21388972 hmqfc FC 2019-11-25 01:23:32
插个楼，支持一下
#quote Masonry

#p 21463762 Masonry Magnum Chaos 2019-12-07 00:54:18


2019-12-06 15:26:23
The measure of time
时间的测量
**IV**
**四**
All this is unimportant, one will say; doubtless our instruments of measurement are imperfect, but it suffices that we can conceive a perfect instrument. This ideal can not be reached, but it is enough to have conceived it and so to have put rigor into the definition of the unit of time. 
有些人会认为：“这些都不重要，我们的测量仪器不是完美的，但只要我们可以想象一个完美的仪器就可以了。这种理想不能被达到，但只要我们可以设想它的存在，那我们就在单位时间的定义中达到了严格。”
The trouble is that there is no rigor in the definition. When we use the pendulum to measure time, what postulate do we implicitly admit? It is that the duration of two identical phenomena is the same; or, if you prefer, that the same causes take the same time to produce the same effects. 
然而，问题恰恰在于这个定义中并没有严格性。**当我们用钟摆测量时间时，我们是不是隐含了一个假定？这个假定是，两个相同的现象的时间长度是相同的；或者可以这样说，相同的原因导致相同的结果所用的时间相等。**
And at first blush, this is a good definition of the equality of two durations. But take care. Is it impossible that experiment may some day contradict our postulate?
初看之下，这个对时长相等的定义已经足够好了。**但请注意，实验会不会有朝一日与这一假定相悖呢？**
Let me explain myself. I suppose that at a certain place in the world the phenomenon α happens, causing a consequence at the end of a certain time the effect α’. At another place in the world very far away the first, happens the phenomenon β, which causes as consequence the effect β’. The phenomena α and β are simultaneous, as are also the effects α’ and β’.
请容我进一步解释。我假设了，在世界的某处一个现象发生了现象α，在一段时间后导致了结果α’。在遥远的另一处地方发生了现象β，导致了结果β‘。现象α和现象β是同时的，他们的导致的效应α’和β’也同时发生。
Later, the phenomenon α is reproduced under approximately the same conditions as before, and simultaneously the phenomenon β is also reproduced at a very distant place in the world and almost under the same circumstances. The effects α’ and β’ also take place. Let us suppose that the effect α’ happens perceptibly before the effect β’.
之后，现象α在与之前相近的条件下重复了，与此同时现象β在远处也按几乎相同的条件发生了。他们的效应α’和β’也跟着发生了。让我们假设我们感知α’的发生比β’的发生要早。
If experience made us witness such a sight, our postulate would be contradicted. For experience would tell us that the first duration αα’ is less than the second duration ββ’. On the other hand, our postulate would require that the two durations αα’ should be equal to each other, as likewise the two durations ββ’. The equality and the inequality deduced from experience would be incompatible with the two equalities deduced from the postulate. 
只要经验使我们见证了这样的事件，我们的假定就发生矛盾了。因为经验告诉我们，αα’的时长小于ββ’的时长。与此相反，我们的假定要求两次的αα’的时长相等，也要求两次的ββ’的时长相等，因此它们彼此相等。我们从经验中得到的相等与不等，与我们假定的全部相等时相悖的。
Now can we affirm that the hypotheses I have just made are absurd? They are in no wise contrary to the principle of contradiction. Doubtless they could not happen without the principle of sufficient reason seeming violated. But to justify a definition so fundamental I should prefer some other guarantee. ﻿
我们是否可以断言刚才做的假设是荒谬的？它们和矛盾律并无甚差别，它们若成立似乎必定违背充足理由律。然而，对于如此根本的定义，我希望有一些其它的保障。
(IV 译完)

#p 21465496 Masonry Magnum Chaos 2019-12-27 13:51:09


2019-12-06 22:43:03
The measure of time
时间的测量
**V**
**五**
But that is not all. In physical reality one cause does not produce a given effect, but a multitude of distinct causes contribute to produce it, without our having any means of discriminating the part of each of them. 
但这尚且不是问题的全部。**在物理现实中，并不是一个原因导致一个结果，而是许多不同的原因共同起到作用，我们没有手段真正地将这些原因分离。**
Physicists seek to make this distinction; but they make it only approximately, and, however they progress, they never will make it except approximately. It is approximately true that the motion of the pendulum is due solely to the earth’s attraction; but in all rigor every attraction, even of Sirius, acts on the pendulum. 
物理学家试图做到这种区分；然而他们只能**近似**地区分，而且，不论怎样进步，他们也只能**近似**地区分了。**近似**地说，钟摆的运动只依赖于地球的吸引；但**严格**地说，即使遥远如天狼星，我们也必须将其引力计入其中。
Under these conditions, it is clear that the causes which have produced a certain effect will never be reproduced except approximately. Then we should modify our postulate and out definition. Instead of saying: ‘The same causes take the same time to produce the same effects,’ we should say: ‘Causes almost identical take almost the same time to produce almost the same effects.’ 
既然如此，我们已经明白，原因和它导致的结果永远都只能近似地重复。因此我们必须修改我们的假定和定义。与其说“相同的原因用一定的时间产生相同的结果”，我们更应说“几乎相同的原因用几乎相等的时间导致几乎相同的结果。”
Our definition therefore is no longer anything but approximate. Besides, as M. Calinon very justly remarks in a recent memoir:
<font color="#000000">        One of the circumstances of any phenomenon is the velocity of the earth’s rotation; if this velocity of rotation varies, it constitutes in the reproduction of this phenomenon a circumstance which no longer remains the same. But to suppose this velocity of rotation constant is to suppose that we know how to measure time. </font>
因此，我们的定义只可能是一种近似的定义。在这里，我引述Calinon先生最近发表的对这一问题的公正见解：
        我们经历的所有现象，都处在地球旋转的背景下；如果地球的旋转速度改变，那么在这一环境之下的现象的重复也一定和原先不同了。但是，我们去假设地球运动的速度是常数，就已经建立在我们知道如何测量时间的基础上了。
Our definition is therefore not yet satisfactory; it is certainly not that which the astronomers of whom I spoke above implicitly adopt, when they affirm that the terrestrial rotation is slowing down. 
因此，我们的定义还不完全令人满意；当那些天文学家在说地球正在减速的时候，他们用的显然不是这个定义。
What meaning according to them has this affirmation? We can only understand it by analyzing the proofs they give of their proposition. They say first that the friction of the tides producing heat must destroy vis viva. They invoke therefore the principle of vis viva, or of the conservation of energy. 
对天文学家而言，上面那句话是什么意思？我们只有分析他们的论证才能知道。**他们说潮汐的摩擦力一定会减损地球的动能。因此，他们引用了动能定律，或者说能量守恒定律。**
They say next that the secular acceleration of the moon, calculated according to Newton’s law, would be less than that deduced from observations unless the correction relative to the slowing down of the terrestrial rotation were made. They invoke therefore Newton’s law. In other words, they define duration in the following way: time should be so defined that Newton’s law and that of vis viva may be verified. Newton’s law is an experimental truth; as such it is only approximate, which shows that we still have only a definition by approximation. 
接下来他们说，实际观测到的月球加速比牛顿定律预测的加速更快，除非校正以地球自转的减慢。这里，他们又用了牛顿定律。换言之，他们按照如下的方式定义时间：时间的定义，应使得牛顿定律和动能定律为真。牛顿定律是实验上的真相；因此它这能是一种近似，也就是说我们仍然只有一种近似的定义。
If now it be supposed that another way of measuring time is adopted, the experiments on which Newton’s law is founded would none the less have the same meaning. Only the enunciation of the law would be different, because it would be translated into another language; it would evidently be much less simple. So that the definition implicitly adopted by the astronomers may be summed up thus: Time should be so defined that the equations of mechanics may be as simple as possible. In other words, there is not one way of measuring time more true than another; that which is generally adopted is only more convenient. Of two watches, we have no right to say that the one goes true, the other wrong; we can only say that it is advantageous to conform to the indications of the first. 
假设我们又提出另一种测量时间的方法，那些建立了牛顿定律的实验也还是会有同样的含义。只是，牛顿定律的阐述的形式会发生改变，这是因为它被翻译成了另一种语言；只不过它会显得更复杂。**所以，天文学家对时间的隐含着的定义是：时间应该使力学方程看起来尽可能简单。换句话说，没有一种测量时间的方法是更正确的，我们通常采用的方法不过是更简单而已。**对于两只走得不同的钟表，我们没有理由说一个正确而另一个是错误的；我们只能说，遵照第一只表对我们更有益。
The difficulty which has just occupied us has been, as I have said, often pointed out; among the most recent works in which it is considered, I may mention, besides M. Calinon’s little book, the treatise on mechanics of M. Andrade. 
如我之前说的，这个占据了我们不少精力的困难，常常被人指出；在最近的探讨这一问题的作品中，除Calinon先生的小书外，我还想提及Andrade先生关于力学的论著。
(V 译完)

#p 21617213 Masonry Magnum Chaos 2019-12-27 13:58:54


2019-12-27 12:13:17
The measure of time
时间的测量
**VI**
**六**
The second difficulty has up to the present attracted much less attention; yet it is altogether analogous to the preceding; and even, logically, I should have spoken of it first. 
第二个困难到目前为止受的关注远少于第一个困难；但其实这两个困难是相似的；甚至，如果从逻辑出发，我应先提及这第二个困难。
Two psychological phenomena happen in two different consciousnesses; when I say they are simultaneous, what do I mean? When I say that a physical phenomenon, which happens outside of every consciousness, is before or after a psychological phenomenon, what do I mean?
两个不同的心理现象，是发生在两个不同的意识中的；当我说这两现象同时发生，是在表达什么意思？当我说，发生于意识之外的物理现象，在某个心理现象之前或之后发生，这又是什么意思？
In 1572, Tycho Brahe noticed in the heavens a new star. An immense conflagration had happened in some far distant heavenly body; but it had happened long before; at least two hundred years were necessary for the light from that star to reach our earth. This conflagration therefore happened before the discovery of America. Well, when considering this gigantic phenomenon, which perhaps had no witness, since the satellites of that star were perhaps uninhabited, I say this phenomenon is anterior to the formation of the visual image of the isle of Española in the consciousness of Christopher Columbus, what do I mean? 
在1572年，第谷·布拉赫在天空中发现了一颗新星。此前，一场剧烈的爆发在某个遥远的天体发生；但它发生在许久之前；光从那个星体射至地球至少需要两百年。因此，这次爆发应当发生在美洲新大陆的发现之前。然而，这个星体可能没有住民，那么或许无人亲历这一星体爆发的宏伟现象，我说这现象发生于Española岛的视觉映像在哥伦布的意识中形成之前，这又是什么意思？
A little reflection is sufficient to understand that all these affirmations have by themselves no meaning. They can have one only as the outcome of a convention. 
经过一些思索，我们能明白这些论断本身没有任何含义。它们的意义，只不过是某种惯例的结果。
(VI 译完)

#p 21617598 Masonry Magnum Chaos 2019-12-27 13:17:26
#DELETED
The measure of time
时间的测量
VII
七
We should first ask ourselves how one could have had the idea of putting into the same frame so many worlds impenetrable to each other. We should like to represent to ourselves the external universe, and only by so doing could we feel that we understood it. We know we never can attain this representation: our weakness is too great. But at least we desire the ability to conceive an infinite intelligence for which this representation would be possible, a sort of great consciousness which should see all, and which should classify all in its time, as we classify, in our time, the little we see. 
或许，我们应自问，一个人怎么会产生时间这个想法，而将如此众多的互相隔绝的世界置于同一框架之内？我们想要将整个外部宇宙表示于内心之中，而只有这样做，我们才觉得自己理解了它。然而，我们知道自己永远无法得到这个表示：我们的缺陷太严重了。但至少，我们仍寄希望于设想一个无限的智能，使得这一表示对它而言是可能的。或者说，我们希望设想一个至高的意识，它能看见一切，并将一切都在它的时间中划分，正如我们，将所见的微毫在我们的时间中划分。
This hypothesis is indeed crude and incomplete, because this supreme intelligence would be only a demigod; infinite in one sense, it would be limited in another, since it would have only an imperfect recollections of the past; and it could have no other, since otherwise all recollections would be equally present to it and for it there would be no time. And yet when we speak of time, for all which happens outside of us, do we not unconsciously adopt this hypothesis; do we not put ourselves in the place of this imperfect god; and do not even the atheists put themselves in the place where god would be if he existed?
这一设想确实粗略而疏漏，因为我们设想的智能只能是一个半神；它虽在一种含义下无限，但在另一种含义下则有限，因为它对过去的记忆必是未完成的；要不然，所有回忆对它都同样当前，它也就没有“时间”了。可是，当我们对发生在意识之外的事情谈论时间时，难道我们不是无意识地采用了这个假设吗？难道我们没有把自己当成这个不整全的神吗？哪怕是无神论者，不也会将自己放在这个假想的神的位置上吗？
What I have just said shows us, perhaps, why we have tried to put all physical phenomena into the same frame. But that can not pass for a definition of simultaneity, since this hypothetical intelligence, even if it existed, would be for us impenetrable. It is therefore necessary to seek something else. 
我刚才说的这些，或许能够解释，为什么我们试图将所有的物理现象放置于同一个框架之下。但这与同时性的定义却是冲突的，因为这个假想的智能即便存在，也不能被我们窥见。因此，我们必须另寻出路。

#p 21617599 Masonry Magnum Chaos 2019-12-27 13:43:09


2019-12-27 13:17:31
The measure of time
时间的测量
**VII**
**七**
We should first ask ourselves how one could have had the idea of putting into the same frame so many worlds impenetrable to each other. We should like to represent to ourselves the external universe, and only by so doing could we feel that we understood it. We know we never can attain this representation: our weakness is too great. But at least we desire the ability to conceive an infinite intelligence for which this representation would be possible, a sort of great consciousness which should see all, and which should classify all in its time, as we classify, in our time, the little we see. 
或许，我们应自问，一个人怎么会产生时间这个想法，而将如此众多的互相隔绝的世界置于同一框架之内？我们想要将整个外部宇宙表示于内心之中，而只有这样做，我们才觉得自己理解了它。然而，我们知道自己永远无法得到这个表示：我们的缺陷太严重了。但至少，我们仍寄希望于设想一个无限的智能，使得这一表示对它而言是可能的。或者说，我们希望设想一个至高的意识，它能看见一切，并将一切都在它的时间中划分，正如我们，将所见的微毫在我们的时间中划分。
This hypothesis is indeed crude and incomplete, because this supreme intelligence would be only a demigod; infinite in one sense, it would be limited in another, since it would have only an imperfect recollections of the past; and it could have no other, since otherwise all recollections would be equally present to it and for it there would be no time. And yet when we speak of time, for all which happens outside of us, do we not unconsciously adopt this hypothesis; do we not put ourselves in the place of this imperfect god; and do not even the atheists put themselves in the place where god would be if he existed?
这一设想确实粗略而疏漏，因为我们设想的智能只能是一个半神；它虽在一种含义下无限，但在另一种含义下则有限，因为它对过去的记忆必是未完成的；要不然，所有回忆对它都同样当前，它也就没有“时间”了。可是，当我们对发生在意识之外的事情谈论时间时，难道我们不是无意识地采用了这个假设吗？难道我们没有把自己当成这个不整全的神吗？哪怕是无神论者，不也会将自己放在这个假想的神的位置上吗？
What I have just said shows us, perhaps, why we have tried to put all physical phenomena into the same frame. But that can not pass for a definition of simultaneity, since this hypothetical intelligence, even if it existed, would be for us impenetrable. It is therefore necessary to seek something else. 
我刚才说的这些，或许能够解释，为什么我们试图将所有的物理现象放置于同一个框架之下。但这与同时性的定义却是冲突的，因为这个假想的智能即便存在，也不能被我们窥见。因此，我们必须另寻出路。
(VII 译完)

#p 21617691 Masonry Magnum Chaos 2019-12-27 14:15:52


2019-12-27 13:33:41
The measure of time
时间的测量
**VIII**
**八**
The ordinary definitions which are proper for psychologic time would suffice us no better. Two simultaneous psychologic facts are so closely bound together that analysis can not separate without mutilating them. Is it the same with two physical facts? Is not my present nearer my past of yesterday than the present of Sirius?
适用于心理时间的常规定义，也不能更好地满足我们。若两个心理现象相互连接得如此紧密，以至于若不更改它们就无法将它们分离，那我们就称它们是同时的。物理现象也能如此定义吗？**我的此刻**离**我的昨日**，不是比**离天狼星的此刻**更近吗？
It has also been said that two facts should be regarded as simultaneous when the order of their succession may be inverted at will. It is evident that this definition would not suit two physical facts which happen far from one another, and that, in what concerns them, we no longer even understand what this reversibility would be; besides, succession itself must first be defined. 
也有人曾说，两个事实应被视作同时发生，若他们之间相继的顺序可以任意颠倒。显然，这个定义不适用于两个相距较远的物理事实，甚至我们无法确定这种颠倒本身会是什么，而且，我们必须首先定义“相继”。
(VIII 译完)

#p 21618038 Masonry Magnum Chaos 2019-12-27 14:35:03
The measure of time
时间的测量
**IX**
**九**
Let us then seek to give an account of what is understood by simultaneity or antecedence, and for this let us analyze some examples. 
我们现在对同时性和先后性做一些描述。为此，让我们分析一些例子。
I write a letter; it is afterward read by the friend to whom I have addressed it. These are two facts which have had for their theater two different consciousnesses. In writing this letter I have had the visual image of it, and my friend has had in his turn this same visual image in reading the letter. Though these two facts happen in impenetrable worlds, I do not hesitate to regard the first as anterior to the second, because I believe it is its cause. 
我写了一封信；我的朋友收到这封信后读了它。这是两个事实，分别上演于两个不同的意识的剧场中。我写这封信时，有了视觉上的图像，而我的朋友在读信时有了相同的视觉图像。虽然这两个事实发生于两个无法穿越的世界，我毫不犹豫地将第一个事实放置在第二个事实之前，以为我确信它是原因。
I hear thunder, and I conclude there has been an electric discharge; I do not hesitate to consider the physical phenomenon as anterior to the auditory image perceived in my consciousness, because I believe it is its cause. 
我听见雷声，于是推断某处曾发生了一次放电；我丝毫不怀疑物理现象发生在意识中的听觉现象之前，这是因为我确信它是原因。
Behold then the rule we follow, and the only one we can follow: when a phenomenon appears to us as the cause of another, we regard it as anterior. It is therefore by cause that we define time; but most often, when two facts appear to us bound by a constant relation, how do we recognize which is the cause and which the effect? We assume that the anterior fact, the antecedent, is the cause of the other, of the consequent. It is then by time that we define cause. How save ourselves from this petitio principii?
请留意我们遵从的这个 规则，这也是我们唯一能遵从的规则：当一个现象看起来像是另一个的原因时，我们就认为它发生在前。因此，我们是根据因果来定义时间的；但很多时候，当两件事情看起来由固定关系紧连在一起时，我们怎么区分那个是原因、哪个是结果呢？我们通常认为，发生在前的是原因，发生在后的是结果。因此，我们又是根据时间来定义因果的 。我们如何才能将自己从这种循环论证中解救出来呢？
We say now <font color="#000000">post hoc, ergo propter hoc</font>; now propter hoc, ergo post hoc; shall we escape from this vicious circle?
**我们先说“在其后，故为其果”，又说“为其果，故在其后”；我们要怎么逃出这无功的循环呢？**

