#t 72 17114039 motaguoke 2019-05-19 16:35:00 motaguoke 2019-05-19 17:19:00
“爱国主义是流氓的最后一块遮羞布”

#p 20246136 motaguoke 孤帆远影 2019-05-19 16:35:12
[https://www.politico.com/story/2019/05/17/trump-patriotism-china-tariffs-1329661](jump-to.php?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.politico.com%2Fstory%2F2019%2F05%2F17%2Ftrump-patriotism-china-tariffs-1329661)
中译文转[http://nga.178.com/read.php?&amp;tid=17293183](jump-to.php?url=http%3A%2F%2Fnga.178.com%2Fread.php%3F%26tid%3D17293183)
President Donald Trump and his allies are appealing to nationalism in the trade war with China, calling on Americans to make “patriotic” sacrifices in language reminiscent of national crises and even wars.
美国总统唐纳德?特朗普及其盟友在对华贸易战中呼吁民族主义，呼吁美国人做出“爱国”牺牲，其措辞令人想到国家危机甚至战争。
Under the “Make America Great Again” banner, Trump has sought to make patriotism cool again — and as he extends his showdown with Beijing, he is targeting the message to the farmers who bear much of the burden of Chinese tariffs.
在“让美国再次伟大”的旗帜下，特朗普试图让爱国主义再次飚起来——在他与北京摊牌之际，他把动员信息对准了承受中国关税负担的农民。
“Our great Patriot Farmers,” the president wrote in a series of tweets on Tuesday, “will be one of the biggest beneficiaries of what is happening now.” Trump’s claim followed China’s announcement that it plans to retaliate against his latest tariffs with increased duties on $60 billion in U.S. goods, in an escalating showdown with no end in sight.
“我们伟大的爱国农民们，”总统在周二的一系列推特中写道，“将成为当前形势的最大受益者之一。”在特朗普发表上述言论之前，中国宣布计划对600亿美元的美国商品提高关税，以报复特朗普的最新关税，这是一场不断升级的摊牌，目前还看不到结束的迹象。
Trump has often made political appeals to patriotism, as when he urged NFL executives to ban player protests during the national anthem. But the China trade is the first case for which he has called for Americans — in this case farmers and other workers, including “ranchers and industrial workers” hit by tariffs — to sacrifice in the name of a long-term greater national good.
特朗普经常在政治上呼吁爱国主义，比如他敦促全国橄榄球联盟高管禁止在国歌响起时举行球员抗议。但针对中国贸易还是他第一次呼吁全体美国人(在这种情况下，是指农民和其他工人，包括被中国报复性关税打击的“农场主和产业工人”)为了更大的长期国家利益而做出牺牲。
Few modern presidents have issued bold calls for patriotic sacrifice. Calling a 1977 energy crisis “the moral equivalent of war,” Jimmy Carter urged Americans to drive slowly, carpool and even turn down their thermostats to conserve oil.
几乎没有哪位当代的总统敢大胆地呼吁人民做出爱国牺牲。吉米·卡特曾把1977年的能源危机称为“道义战争”，他敦促美国人开车慢一点，拼车，甚至调低空调，以节约石油。
One prominent historian pointed back to the World War II as a precedent.
一位著名的历史学家将第二次世界大战作为先例。
“Obviously this was one of the central themes of Franklin Roosevelt during World War II — that we are all in this together. That the war is not only being fought by soldiers abroad, but by patriotic Americans at home who are paying the price through price controls and rationing to make the war effort successful,” said Allan Lichtman, a distinguished professor of history at American University.
“显然，这是富兰克林·罗斯福在二战期间的中心主题之一——我们团结一致共赴国难。这场战争不仅是海外士兵在打的仗，而且也是国内爱国的美国人在打的仗。他们通过忍受价格控制和定量配给来为战争的胜利做出贡献。” 美国大学著名历史学教授艾伦·利希特曼说。
Sen. Tom Cotton (R-Ark.) also invoked a comparison to war during an appearance on CBS over the weekend. “There will be some sacrifices on the part of Americans, I grant you that,” Cotton said, adding that sacrifices American farmers have been forced to make as a result of the president’s protectionist trade agenda have been “pretty minimal” compared to those made by U.S. troops overseas.
阿肯色州共和党参议员汤姆·科顿上周末在哥伦比亚广播公司的节目中也提到了战争。科顿说：“我承认美国人会做出一些牺牲。” 他补充说，由于总统的贸易保护主义议程，美国农民被迫作出的牺牲与美国海外部队作出的牺牲相比“不值一提。
For farmers across America’s rural communities — particularly those struggling to keep their businesses afloat — Trump’s latest appeal risks sounding ill-timed and redundant. Six months ago, shortly before the U.S. and China agreed to a temporary ceasefire that avoided new tariffs for 90 days, American farmers were assured that relief was imminent.
对于美国农村社区的农民(尤其是那些努力维持自己生意的农民)来说，特朗普的最新呼吁可能听起来不合时宜，而且多余。六个月前，就在美国和中国达成临时停火协议、在90天内避免征收新关税之前不久，美国农民得到了救济款即将发放的保证。
“I think you can see very clearly that farmers are more frustrated now than they were six months ago,” Kuehl said. “We heard there’s a deal that’s imminent, then it’s not. We heard this was all going to be wrapped up quickly, then it wasn’t. A lot of farmers just want to know there’s a light at the end of the tunnel.”
库尔说：“我认为你能很清楚地看到，农民现在比六个月前更加沮丧。我们听说有一项协议即将达成，但事实并非如此。我们听说这一切将很快结束，但事实并非如此。很多农民只是想知道在隧道的尽头还有一线光明。”
For now, though, any light at the end of the tunnel seems far off.
不过，就目前的形势而言，隧道尽头的光明似乎还很遥远。
Conflicting statements about the scope of a trade agreement and the effectiveness of tariffs have cast doubt on whether the administration has a clear strategy, and those following the talks closely have said recently that the two sides remain in a standoff over several major components. Trump on Monday said it could take “three or four weeks” for the contours of a final deal to emerge, while also suggesting that he’s not in any rush.
有关贸易协定范围和关税有效性的相互矛盾的声明，让人怀疑特朗普政府是否有一个明确的战略，密切关注谈判的人士最近表示，双方在几个主要问题上仍然僵持不下。特朗普周一表示，最终协议的轮廓可能需要“三到四周”才能形成，同时也暗示他并不着急。
“I love the position we’re in,” the president told reporters.
总统告诉记者：“我喜欢我们现在的处境。”
One reason for this, according to a Trump campaign official, is that Trump sees his trade war with China as an opportunity to showcase the character of the American people, and the sacrifices that some are willing to make to bring about long-term prosperity for all — especially in an election cycle for which he’s chosen to make patriotism a central pillar of his campaign.
特朗普竞选团队的一名官员表示，其中一个原因在于，特朗普把他与中国的贸易战视为一个展示美国人民性格，以及一些人愿意为所有人带来长期繁荣而做出牺牲的机会——尤其是在他选择将爱国主义作为竞选核心支柱的选举周期中。
What the president has managed to do is “politics 101,” Graham Allison, a Harvard University professor and foreign policy strategist who has warned that war with China may be inevitable, wrote in an email.
哈佛大学教授、外交政策策略师格雷厄姆·艾利森在一封电子邮件中写道，总统成功做到的是“政治101”。
“Blaming China for whatever — much of which it deserves blame for — sounds a responsive chord that no Democrat dares to challenge,” Allison wrote, adding that the direct payments to farmers through the Department of Agriculture’s Market Facilitation Program, “plus applauding patriotism and showing strength, leaves Democrats with no alternative but to support” Trump’s position.
“把一切事情(其中很多都应该受到指责)都归咎于中国——听起来像是一个没有哪个民主党人敢挑战的共鸣，” 艾利森写道，他还称，通过农业部的市场促进计划向农民直接支付补贴，“再加上赞扬爱国主义和显示力量，让民主党人别无选择，只能支持”特朗普的立场。
Trump “is right that farmers are patriots,” said Dale Moore, executive vice president at the American Farm Bureau Federation.
美国农业局联合会执行副主席戴尔·摩尔说，特朗普“说农民是爱国者是对的”。
“But it’s hard for farmers to take patriotism to their banker to ask for a loan,” he added.
“但农民很难凭着爱国主义到他们的银行家那里去要求贷款，”他补充说。

#p 20246394 motaguoke 孤帆远影 2019-05-19 17:18:55
“你爱国，可国不爱你”
#quote motaguoke

