#t 22 16769759 naiiive 2018-11-11 14:11:00 naiiive 2018-11-11 14:11:00
外媒：十工运人士失踪

#p 18954022 naiiive 不忘初心 牢记使命 2018-11-11 14:11:00
Police 'kidnap' 10 labour activists across China: Rights group 
Read more at:
﻿[http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/articleshow/66571750.cms?utm_source=contentofinterest&amp;utm_medium=text&amp;utm_campaign=cppst](jump-to.php?url=http%3A%2F%2Ftimesofindia.indiatimes.com%2Farticleshow%2F66571750.cms%3Futm_source%3Dcontentofinterest%26utm_medium%3Dtext%26utm_campaign%3Dcppst)
BEIJING: A Chinese labour rights group on Saturday said at least ten 
of its supporters were detained by police in several cities across the 
country, in the latest apparent crackdown against its activists.
Student-led activism from China's top universities has surged in recent 
years, as young college students rally behind labour rights and unions 
despite pressure from universities and police.
The Jasic Workers Solidarity group, which supports workers at welding 
machinery firm Jasic Technology, said the activists were detained by 
police on Friday night.
Five were graduates of Peking University -- one of the country's top-ranked institutions.
One of the graduates, Zhang Shengye, was "kidnapped" on the school campus, the group alleged in its statement.
An eyewitness and Peking University student claimed that more than ten 
people in dark-coloured clothing beat Zhang before dragging him into a 
black car.
"They hit him hard and quickly got Zhang under control," he told AFP, requesting anonymity.
A few other students who were passing by were also beaten, he added. 
They were forced to the ground, and stopped from taking photos or 
speaking.
"Peking University acquiesced to the kidnapping- this is another crime 
universities have committed against progressive students and the 
leftwing community," said the Jasic Workers Solidarity group.
In addition to Zhang, four other Peking University graduates went 
missing Friday after police raided homes in Beijing, Shanghai, and 
Guangzhou, stated the group.
In Shenzhen, a city in southern Guangdong province, two people who 
operated a non-profit for young workers, as well as members of their 
staff, were taken by police as well, the group said.
Three workers who were part of the solidarity group, plus an unspecified
 number of activists in Guangdong province, also disappeared in the 
police sweep, it said.
AFP could not independently verify the labour group's claims.
Police in Beijing, Guangzhou, Shenzhen, and Shanghai did not immediately respond to AFP's request for comment.
In August, a police raid swept up student activists in Guangdong 
province, according to the official website of the Jasic Workers 
Solidarity group, who said police beat students and confiscated their 
phones.
Yue Xin, a Peking University student who co-authored a petition 
demanding details about a probe into allegations of sexual abuse at the 
school, has not been heard from since she was detained in the August 
raid.
Two students from Renmin University and Peking University were also 
taken away by police for several hours Friday after taking photos in 
front of an Apple store in Beijing.
The students- a group of ten in total- were protesting the alleged 
exploitation of workers at an Apple Watch factory in southwestern China.
Apple said it was investigating the claims.
﻿

