#t 1465 17575003 starfang 2020-03-09 18:36:00 motaguoke 2020-03-09 18:49:00
zz：完美反映西方人左右为难心理的文章

#p 21960698 starfang starfang 2020-03-09 18:35:57
Telegraph 
Complacent governments will be torn to shreds as a coronavirus quake reshapes the global order
AMBROSE EVANS-PRITCHARD
 Ambrose Evans-Pritchard 8 MARCH 2020 • 8:00PM
 The Earth with a face mask and virus cells
Covid-19 is turning into a strategic contest between the social control model of China and the unruly, free-spirited pluralism of the West
The world’s geopolitical order will be unrecognisable once Covid-19 has done its worst. Long-standing regimes will be badly compromised. Political systems that have never fully recovered from the Lehman crisis will suffer a second body blow. 
Those Western democratic governments that have been most complacent or incompetent will be torn to shreds by unforgiving electorates. Social media will see to that.
Covid-19 is turning into a strategic contest between the social control model of China’s Communist Party and the unruly, free-spirited pluralism of the West. How that comparison plays out will shape the global order in the 21st Century.
In this country, Brexit scarcely matters right now. Decimal points of GDP are irrelevant. Boris Johnson will be judged on whether or not his administration allows avoidable decimation of the elderly – and the not so elderly – and whether the National Health Service buckles in catastrophic institutional failure. 
Korea has six times as many intensive care (ICU) beds per capita, and Germany four times as many. What we know so far from Lombardy is that 13pc of infected patients require ICU treatment, typically for two to three weeks. 
The outbreak is already overwhelming the system in Italy’s best equipped region. ICU patients are being sent to Tuscany because beds have run out.
The Italian society of anesthesia and critical care says it may be necessary to reserve “very scarce resources” to patients with a “higher chance of survival and more years of life to come”. The unthinkable is happening.
“Italy should be a warning to everybody, everywhere,” says Professor Massimo Galli, head of infectious diseases at the Luigi Sacco hospital in Milan. 
He is scathing about those still playing down the threat. “It was never anything like flu. People uttering such things are sowing confusion among those who wish to be confused,” he said.
If the British government can buy vital weeks to “flatten the peak” and stretch the epidemic into the less contagious summer (we hope), it might have a chance of preventing a national disgrace – starting with a shortage of respirators, one variable explaining why reported mortality rates in Wuhan are 5.8pc, 2pc in Beijing, and 1pc in Shanghai, but rising everywhere as slow deaths come in. 
Should the Prime Minister succeed in limiting ratios to “best-in-the-class” levels among the democracies, or close to it, he has some chance of political survival. The crucial choices will be made this week in Cobra session and on the Budget. 
My advice is to opt for war-time measures and drastic contagion barriers, biting the bullet on economic trauma. The Government cannot dodge this trade-off, but it can use all powers to cushion the blow for business and “collectivise” the cost.
Data from China suggest a death rate of 15pc for infected cases over the age of 80. It is 8pc for those in their seventies, and 3.6pc in their sixties (or 5.4pc for men). No elected government in any Western democracy will survive if it lets such carnage unfold. Do we consign the disabled of whatever age, or the immuno-suppressed, or those with weak lungs, to Russian roulette? Of course we don’t.
Unfortunately, the early figures from Italy seem to be tracking Hubei’s epidemiology with a horrible consistency. The death rate for all ages is near 5pc. While there may be large numbers of undetected infections – distorting ratios – Italy has tested widely, much more than Germany or France.
As I write, 366 have died in Italy. The average age is 81, and 72pc are men. For whatever reason, the Italian system seems unable to save them. The death rate is six times the reported rate in Korea, even adjusting for age structures. Is it because the Italian strain has mutated into a more lethal form (we don’t yet have the sequence data) or because Europeans are genetically more vulnerable?
Is it because Italy’s nitrogen dioxide pollution is the worst in Europe (the UK is bad too), leading to chronic lung inflammation? Is it the chaotic administration that led to a catalogue of errors in the hotspot of Codogno?
Perhaps, but it may also be because Italy’s decade of austerity has been harsher than anything George Osborne ever imposed. Are we seeing the delayed kick from cut after cut to the Servizio Nazionale Sanitario, the budget paired to 6.6pc of GDP, all forensically dissected in a report by the Fondazione GIMBE? If you think Britain’s NHS has been starved of funds, spare a thought for Italy, Portugal, Spain, or Greece. 
Can one conclude that the eurozone’s ideology of fiscal contraction has come back to haunt? Certainly.
For now, premier Giuseppe Conte is riding a wave of national unity, but his drastic decision to lock down Milan, Venice and much of the Italian industrial core will – while necessary – have violent recessionary consequences that Italy cannot counter. It lacks the sovereign instruments to do so. Twenty years of depression have left the Italian economy itself immunosuppressed.
As this becomes clear, Covid-19 will chip away at the ruling coalition – shoe-horned into office by the pro-EU establishment – and play into the hands of Matteo Salvini, the Lega strongman. The spectacle of Rome pleading with Brussels for licence to defend its society in an emergency is the perfect foil.
“Companies need emergency aid to avoid closure and lay-offs. If there is no aid because of some accounting fanatics, it means the EU is dead. Paying to belong to a union that sticks two fingers in our eyes is no longer sustainable,” he told the Italian Senate. Europeanism is a fair-weather attitude. In crisis, war and death, people revert to being national.
Germany is just days behind on a similar contagion trajectory as Italy, as is most of Europe – and it too has been caught off guard. The trusting German public seem to think their fragmented health system has the virus under control. No doubt German efficiency and good kit will prevent the worst, but citizens have a surprise coming. 
The hotlines are as jammed as in Britain. The testing bureaucracy has been Kafkaesque. The hotspot of North-Rhine Westphalia is short of doctors. Berlin seems to be tilting towards economic business-as-usual rather than contagion control. It will regret that choice. 
My conjecture is that Covid-19 will trip up Angela Merkel’s Grand Coalition, ushering in an unfamiliar Germany fractured five ways with the Greens, the hard Left (Linke), and the hard-right (AfD) tearing into the flesh of a decaying political centre.
Medical failings will unfold in tandem with a deep recession across the eurozone, which has failed to take advantage of the Draghi Reprieve to rebuild monetary union on viable foundations with a fiscal backstop. The European Central Bank is exhausted. Interest rates are at minus 0.5pc. The ECB can compress corporate debt yields further, or offer limitless free loans to banks, but this is just damage control.
Only fiscal stimulus on a New Deal scale can counter the shock and pull the eurozone out of a deflationary slide. Such a move collides head on with the EU's machinery of spending restraint, fixed in treaty law. Token flexibility on deficit targets is not going to move the economic needle. Brussels does not have the legal latitude to tear up the rule-book even if it wanted to. Europeans have built for themselves a structure that cannot respond to crises.
Of all the regimes, the Khomeinist Islamic Republic of Iran is the most obviously damaged. The cocktail of lies, corruption and ineptitude over Covid-19 may have shattered whatever remaining confidence existed in the self-serving revolutionary elites. Now it faces a collapsing oil price as well. So does Saudi Arabia. The Gulf petro-bloc is a step closer to its insolvency crisis.
The verdict on China's Communist Party is harder to discern. Xi Jinping has seized on the epidemic to tighten surveillance and build his personality cult, using totalitarian control over social media website Weibo to expunge any reference to the early Wuhan cover-up. He has launched a media blitz declaring heroic victory, with martyrs entering the pantheon like heroes of the Long March. Party officials are putting it about that the coronavirus did not start in China, insinuating that it came from the US. It is a propaganda war now.
It is impossible to judge claims that the epidemic is contained given the police state methods deployed to suppress any verification. There is persistent talk from the informal Samizdat network that the virus is spreading fast and furiously in Beijing itself. Much as I would like to believe the World Health Organisation, that underfunded body is out of its political depth in China and disturbingly prone to the Potemkin syndrome. 
The Politburo’s frantic efforts to revive economic output and head off a financial Minsky Moment – to the point of inflating electricity usage figures to confuse short-sellers – cuts against virus control. This relaxation in containment is akin to “suppressing a forest fire, but not putting it out,” says Prof Mike Osterholm, author of Deadliest Enemy: Our War Against Killer Germs. “It’ll come roaring back.”
What we have seen so far in China may only be the “herald wave” before the virus returns, as it did with such ferocity in wave two of the 1918 Spanish Flu.
But the jury is also out on the US. It has allowed a surveillance failure. The fight is being led by a man who persisted in calling it a “hoax” long after it was already spreading in Washington state.
That infamous mantra will ring down through the ages as the defining epithet of the Trump presidency.
Barely in office, Donald Trump slashed the global health security funds of the Center for Disease Control (CDC) by 80pc and closed the pandemic machinery at the White House. His first reflex when cases escalated was to try to spin the message. All must be well so long as Wall Street is rising. But the markets were wrong. On matters of science, it is better to heed scientists.
Whether cuts to the CDC contributed to the fiasco of a faulty reagent sent out to labs will be combed over in the political post mortem, as will the long delay before permitting others to step into the breach. The fact is that the US tested almost nobody until early March. By then it was too late. It was the fatal missed window. Call it “Wuhan II” – American style.
The US is about to face its grim reckoning. It has the best health care in the rich world – and the worst. Pandemics exploit the worst.
Mr Trump can still avert disaster if he invokes executive powers immediately to extend testing and care to the uninsured and illegal aliens (without deportation risk), and if he switches to lock-downs and war-time policies. 
But that is not happening. So the crowded rallies go on and the contagion will go exponential before hot weather comes to the rescue. I fear that the coming news cycle and the footage from America’s busy morgues will be gold dust for the Chinese propaganda department. 
As for this wet little island, we have alarming weaknesses but also strengths. Listening to the candid reassuring tones of Professor Chris Whitty and Sir Patrick Vallance, I feel at least that we are not being spun. The decisions taken will be judicious and in the common interest. It is the old British style. We may just muddle through with our national model intact, if we are lucky.
中文（机翻）：
随着一场冠状病毒地震重塑全球秩序，自满的政府将被撕成碎片
安布罗斯EVANS-PRITCHARD
安布罗斯·埃文斯-普里查德2020年3月8日晚上8点
地球上有一个面具和病毒细胞
Covid-19正在变成中国的社会控制模式与西方难以驾驭、自由奔放的多元主义之间的一场战略较量
一旦Covid-19做了最坏的事情，世界地缘政治秩序将面目全非。长期存在的政权将受到严重损害。从未从雷曼危机中完全恢复的政治体系将遭受第二次重创。
那些最自满、最无能的西方民主政府将被无情的选民撕成碎片。社交媒体会关注这一点。
Covid-19正在变成中国共产党的社会控制模式与西方难以驾驭、自由奔放的多元主义之间的一场战略较量。这种比较的结果将决定21世纪的全球秩序。
在这个国家，英国退欧现在几乎无关紧要。GDP的小数点是无关紧要的。评判鲍里斯•约翰逊(Boris Johnson)的标准，将是英国广播公司(bbc)是否允许本可避免的对老年人的大规模屠杀，以及英国国民医疗服务体系(nhs)是否会在灾难性的制度失灵中发挥作用。
韩国的人均重症监护(ICU)床位是美国的六倍，德国是美国的四倍。到目前为止，我们对伦巴第的了解是，13%的感染者需要ICU治疗，一般需要两到三周。
疫情已经在意大利装备最好的地区肆虐。ICU病人被送往托斯卡纳，因为床位已经用完了。
意大利麻醉和危重症护理学会表示，有必要将“非常稀缺的资源”留给“存活率更高、寿命更长”的病人。不可思议的事情正在发生。
米兰路易基萨科医院(Luigi Sacco hospital)传染病科主任马西莫•加利(Massimo Galli)教授表示:“意大利应该向所有人、所有地方发出警告。”
他严厉批评那些仍在淡化威胁的人。“它根本不像流感。说这些话的人是在那些希望被迷惑的人中间播下困惑的种子。”
如果英国政府可以购买重要周“平峰”和拉伸的流行传染性夏天少(我们希望),它可能有机会阻止国家的耻辱——从呼吸器的短缺,一个变量解释了为什么报道武汉的死亡率是5.8,2 pc在北京,和1个人电脑在上海,但到处都上升缓慢死亡。
如果首相能够成功地将比例限制在民主国家中“最优”的水平，或者接近这个水平，他就有一定的政治生存机会。关键的选择将在本周的眼镜蛇会议和预算上做出。
我的建议是，选择战时措施和激烈的传染屏障，在经济创伤上咬紧牙关。政府无法回避这种取舍，但它可以利用一切权力来缓冲对企业的打击，并“集体”成本。
来自中国的数据显示，80岁以上的感染者死亡率为15%。70多岁的人有8%，60多岁的人有3.6%(男性为5.4%)。任何西方民主国家的民选政府，如果任由这种屠杀继续下去，都将难以为继。我们会把任何年龄的残疾人、免疫系统受到抑制的人、肺功能低下的人交给俄罗斯轮盘赌吗?我们当然不知道。
不幸的是，来自意大利的早期数据似乎与湖北的流行病学有着可怕的一致性。所有年龄段的死亡率都接近5%。尽管可能存在大量未被发现的感染——扭曲的比例——但意大利进行了广泛的检测，远远超过德国或法国。
在我写这篇文章的时候，意大利已有366人死亡。平均年龄为81岁，男性占72%。无论出于何种原因，意大利的体制似乎无法拯救他们。即使根据年龄结构进行调整，韩国的死亡率仍是报道的六倍。是因为意大利菌株突变成更致命的形式(我们还没有序列数据)，还是因为欧洲人在基因上更脆弱?
是因为意大利的二氧化氮污染是欧洲最严重的(英国也很严重)，导致慢性肺部炎症吗?是混乱的管理导致了Codogno热点的一系列错误吗?
也许是这样，但也可能是因为意大利十年来的紧缩政策比乔治·奥斯本(George Osborne)推行的任何政策都要严厉。难道我们看到的是对Servizio Nazionale Sanitario的一次又一次的削减，预算占GDP的6.6%，这一切都在Fondazione GIMBE基金会的一份报告中被剖析了吗?如果你认为英国的国民保健服务(NHS)缺乏资金，那就想想意大利、葡萄牙、西班牙或希腊吧。
人们能否得出这样的结论:欧元区财政紧缩的意识形态已卷土重来?当然可以。
目前，意大利总理朱塞佩•孔戴(Giuseppe Conte)正掀起全国团结的浪潮，但他封锁米兰、威尼斯和意大利大部分工业核心地区的激烈决定，将在必要时产生意大利无法逆转的严重衰退后果。它缺乏这样做的主权工具。20年的经济萧条使意大利经济本身受到免疫抑制。
随着这一点变得清晰起来，Covid-19将削弱由亲欧盟的当权派硬推上台的执政联盟，并正中正统铁腕人物马泰奥•萨尔维尼(Matteo Salvini)的下策。罗马向布鲁塞尔申请在紧急情况下保卫其社会的许可，这是一个完美的陪衬。
“公司需要紧急援助来避免倒闭和裁员。如果因为一些会计狂热分子而没有援助，那就意味着欧盟已经死了。付钱给一个对我们造成伤害的工会不再是可持续的，”他告诉意大利参议院。欧洲主义是一种不能共患难的态度。在危机、战争和死亡中，人们回归到国家。
德国的危机蔓延轨迹与意大利、欧洲多数国家一样，仅落后数日，而且德国也措手不及。信任的德国公众似乎认为他们支离破碎的医疗系统已经控制住了病毒。毫无疑问，德国的效率和良好的装备将防止最坏的情况发生，但德国公民将有一个惊喜。
热线电话和英国一样挤得水泄不通。测试的官僚主义是卡夫卡式的。北莱茵-威斯特伐利亚的热点地区缺少医生。柏林似乎倾向于经济照常运转，而不是危机蔓延控制。它会为这个选择后悔的。
我的推测是，covid19将会阻碍安格拉·默克尔的大联合政府，导致一个不熟悉的德国与绿党、强硬左派(Linke)和强硬右派(AfD)在五个方面分裂，撕裂一个腐朽的政治中心的血肉。
随着欧元区陷入深度衰退，医疗方面的失误也将随之显现。欧元区未能利用德拉吉的暂缓之机，在可行的基础上以财政支持重建货币联盟。欧洲央行(ecb)已经筋疲力尽。利率为- 0.5%。欧洲央行可以进一步压缩企业债券收益率，或者向银行提供无限制的免费贷款，但这只是为了控制损失。
只有出台新协议规模的财政刺激措施，才能抵消这种冲击，使欧元区摆脱通缩下滑。这样的举动与欧盟条约法规定的开支限制机制发生正面冲突。赤字目标上象征性的灵活性不会改变经济的方向。布鲁塞尔没有撕毁规则手册的法律空间，即使它想这么做。欧洲人为自己建立了一个无法应对危机的结构。
在所有政权中，霍梅尼主义的伊朗伊斯兰共和国受到的损害最为明显。谎言、腐败和针对“贪心19”的无能混合在一起，可能已经粉碎了那些自私自利的革命精英们残存的信心。如今，它还面临着油价暴跌。沙特阿拉伯也是如此。海湾石油集团距离破产危机又近了一步。
对中国共产党的评判则更难辨别。习近平抓住疫情，加强监控，建立个人崇拜，利用对社交媒体网站新浪微博(Weibo)的极权控制，抹去了任何有关武汉早期掩盖疫情的说法。他发动了一场媒体闪击战，宣布了英勇的胜利，烈士们像长征的英雄一样进入了先贤祠。中共官员表示，这种冠状病毒并非起源于中国，暗示它来自美国。现在这是一场宣传战。
鉴于各国警方采取了压制任何核查的方法，要判断疫情是否得到了控制是不可能的。非正式地下出版物网络一直在说，病毒正在北京迅速而猛烈地传播。尽管我很愿意相信世界卫生组织(who)，但这个资金不足的机构在中国的政治深度之外，而且令人不安地容易患上“波将金综合征”(Potemkin syndrome)。
中共中央政治局为恢复经济产出和阻止金融“明斯基时刻”(为了迷惑做空者而夸大用电量数据)而做出的疯狂努力，与病毒控制相抵触。《致命的敌人:我们与致命细菌的战争》一书的作者迈克•奥斯特霍尔姆教授表示，这种遏制政策的放松类似于“扑灭一场森林大火，但不是把它扑灭”。“它会卷土重来的。”
到目前为止，我们在中国看到的可能只是病毒卷土重来之前的“先驱波”，就像1918年西班牙流感的第二波那样凶猛。
但美国的情况也是如此。它允许监视失败。这场战斗是由一名男子领导的，他坚持称这是一场“骗局”，尽管它早已在华盛顿州传播开来。
这句臭名昭著的咒语将作为特朗普总统任期的标志性口号流传千古。
上任不久，唐纳德·特朗普就将疾病控制中心(CDC)的全球健康安全基金削减了80%，并关闭了白宫的流行病机制。当案件升级时，他的第一反应是试图歪曲消息。只要华尔街还在上升，一切就一定没问题。但市场错了。在科学问题上，最好听从科学家的意见。
美国疾病控制与预防中心(CDC)的经费削减是否导致了一种有缺陷的试剂被送进实验室的惨败，将在政治尸检后进行彻底的讨论，以及在允许他人介入之前的漫长拖延。事实上，在3月初之前，美国几乎没有进行过核试验。那时已经太迟了。这是致命的错过的窗口。就叫它“武汉二号”吧——美国式的。
美国即将面临严峻的清算。它拥有发达国家中最好的医疗保障，同时也是最差的。流行病利用的是最坏的情况。
如果特朗普立即动用行政权力，将检测和护理扩展到未投保和非法的外国人(没有被驱逐出境的风险)，如果他转向禁闭和战时政策，他仍然可以避免灾难。
但这并没有发生。因此，拥挤的集会仍在继续，在炎热的天气来拯救之前，传染将呈指数级增长。我担心即将到来的新闻周期和美国繁忙的停尸房的画面会成为中国宣传部的金粉。
至于这个潮湿的小岛，我们有令人担忧的弱点，但也有长处。听着克里斯·惠蒂教授和帕特里克·瓦兰斯爵士坦率的语气，我觉得我们至少没有被欺骗。所作的决定将是明智的，符合共同利益。这是老式的英国风格。如果我们幸运的话，我们可能会勉强维持我们国家模式的完整。

#p 21960704 starfang starfang 2020-03-09 18:37:19
不相信中国的数据吧，意大利已经表明了一切
相信中国的数据，之前政府说的flu不就是一个笑话了嘛
那就一边呼吁相信中国死亡率的数据，一边假设中国还有瞒报就是（也不管死亡率和确诊人数能不能对的上了）
#quote starfang

#p 21960747 motaguoke 孤帆远影 2020-03-09 18:48:10
“He has launched a media blitz declaring heroic victory, with martyrs entering the pantheon like heroes of the Long March. Party officials are putting it about that the coronavirus did not start in China, insinuating that it came from the US. It is a propaganda war now.”
可以，这很“西方”视角。抵抗住了就是propaganda，就是blitz；抵抗不住就是herald wave
一百年过去了屁股还是那个屁股
反正现在主角不在中国了，let's see what happens next
#quote starfang

