#t 1465 17595793 lea 2020-03-24 00:22:00 Hotarubi 2020-03-25 11:20:00
推特拒绝封杀中国官员账号和网帖

#p 22080221 lea 无爱即无忧 2020-03-24 22:37:22
前几天，美国共和党两名国会议员曾给美国最大的社交网络公司之一“推特”的CEO杰克·多尔西（Jack Dorsey）发邮件，要求他封杀推特平台上所有中国官方开设的账号，指控这些账号在散布针对美国的虚假消息。
然而，推特方面给出的回应是：他们不会删除这些账号以及相关网帖。
根据美国《国会山报》的报道，此次美国一些国会议员和政客要求推特删除中国官方的账号和帖文，主要是源于中国外交部发言人赵立坚此前在推特上针对新冠病毒来源问题而向美方发出的质问。
这些美国政客，以及部分美国媒体，认为赵立坚是在断章取义美国疾控中心官员的话，并引用加拿大一家“阴谋论”网站的内容，炒作病毒是美军士兵在武汉军运期间传播给中国的“阴谋论”，所以应该被删帖封号。但支持赵立坚的中外网民则认为，面对美国政府频频将新冠病毒污名化为“中国病毒”的言辞，身为中国外交部发言人的赵立坚理应回击，去质问美国。
而在推特看来，他们则认为赵立坚的行为本身并没有违反推特的规则，称“目前，直接与其他公众人物互动，评论热点政治议题，或是在经济或军事问题上进行外交上的口水战，通常来说并不违反推特的规则”。
不过，尽管推特在此事上看似在坚守他们的原则和底线，他们却遭到了一些美国政客和媒体的猛烈抨击。其中，特朗普的儿子就发帖攻击推特成为了中国政府的宣传工具。
包括报道此事的美国《国会山报》以及美国《每日野兽》这种大体上持反特朗普立场的网站，也都对推特拒绝删帖封号的做法颇有微词。
然而，在《国会山报》的报道下面，有网民就调侃说，如果推特真的按照这些人的定义和标准去删除赵立坚的网帖并封号，那特朗普的账号早就应该被封杀了……

#p 22081956 yuanphys yuanphys 2020-03-25 10:48:12
为啥赵立jian能在推特发帖? 而我不能?
因为我不姓赵?
#quote lea

#p 22081959 Chips 好困好困好困 2020-03-25 10:48:40
最后一句过于真实
#quote lea

#p 22082166 Hotarubi 是扇底闪躲|或雨水摧折 2020-03-25 11:19:28
[https://www.sasse.senate.gov/public/index.cfm/2020/3/sasse-and-gallagher-urge-twitter-to-ban-chinese-communist-party](jump-to.php?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.sasse.senate.gov%2Fpublic%2Findex.cfm%2F2020%2F3%2Fsasse-and-gallagher-urge-twitter-to-ban-chinese-communist-party)
公开信由内华达州参议员Ben Sasse和威斯康辛州众议员Mike Gallagher写出，全文如下：
Dear Mr. Dorsey,
While the coronavirus pandemic is afflicting families, governments, and markets around the world, the Chinese Communist Party is waging a massive propaganda campaign to rewrite the history of COVID-19 and whitewash the Party’s lies to the Chinese people and the world. The widespread use of Twitter by communist officials of the People’s Republic of China (PRC) during this crisis emphasizes the contradiction in officials from governments that deny their citizens access to social media platforms like Twitter having access to those same platforms, oftentimes to spread disinformation.
　　By banning Twitter in China, the Chinese Communist Party is keeping its citizens in the dark. By putting propaganda on Twitter, the Chinese Communist Party is lying to the rest of the world. We believe that the propaganda campaign Chinese government officials are currently waging on Twitter —especially during the current global crisis-- merits the removal of these individual accounts from the platform. We appreciate your efforts to address these concerns in writing.
　　First, while the Chinese government is prolific at rewriting history through its state-run media outlets that also run their own Twitter accounts, PRC diplomats are increasingly taking to Twitter during this crisis. PRC diplomats have tweeted lies that the Chinese government has been completely transparent throughout the crisis and bought the world time to prepare for the outbreak; a theory largely discredited and debunked by a recent study. PRC diplomats have also shamelessly propagated conspiracy theories like the United States created the coronavirus for which the Chinese Communist Party itself bears responsibility. That PRC officials deliberately took to Twitter to push this propaganda raise the following questions:
    1. How does Twitter view tweets and statements like these by PRC officials?
    2. Does Twitter believe that the PRC officials are engaging in a free and open exchange of ideas about the virus on its platform?
    3. If PRC officials indeed have ulterior motives and are deliberately spreading misinformation on your platform, what does Twitter view as its responsibility to its users?
　　The PRC is not the only totalitarian government that blocks public access to Twitter yet uses your service to promote its propaganda. Notably, many Iranian government officials enjoy verified Twitter accounts despite denying the Iranian public the opportunity to engage on your platform. We applaud your 2018 decision to suspend more than 280 Iranian Twitter accounts that engaged in “coordinated manipulation,” but urge you to consider whether that standard also applies to government officials from other totalitarian regimes. Accordingly, we also request answers to the following:
    1. What is Twitter’s rationale for granting platform access to representatives of a government that blocks its domestic population from accessing Twitter?
    2. What is Twitter’s rationale for granting platform access to representatives of a government that helps organize the coordinated manipulation of content on your platform?
　　It is clear that Chinese Communist Party officials are using Twitter to disseminate propaganda in the midst of a dangerous global crisis. Even worse, this propaganda obscures and confuses users over the origins of the COVID-19 pandemic and potentially undermines efforts to contain and control the outbreak. We believe this behavior more than warrants their removal from the platform. Additionally, given the humanitarian importance of free and open access to the internet, we believe that access to social media platforms should be denied to government officials from countries that prohibit their own populations from accessing this very content.
　　Thank you for your consideration and we look forward to engaging with you on these questions and more.
Sincerely,
Senator Ben Sasse
Congressman Mike Gallagher 
#quote lea

